<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Rosicrucian Mysteries</title>
      <author><name reg="Heindel, Max">Max Heindel</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="3">Edition 3</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>August 30, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">29855</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="el"></language>
      <language id="he"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-08-30">August 30, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Sigal Alon, Fox in the Stars, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="text-align: center">The</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Rosicrucian Mysteries</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">An Elementary Exposition of</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Their Secret Teachings</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Max Heindel</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Author of: The Rosicrucian
Cosmo Conception, The Rosicrucian Philosophy in Questions and Answers, The
Rosicrucian Interpretation of Christianity, Rays from the Rose Cross, etc.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Third Edition</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Rosicrucian Fellowship</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Oceanside, California</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">London</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">L. N. Fowler, 7 Imperial Arcade</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Ludgate Circus. E. C.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter I. The Order of Rosicrucians and the Rosicrucian Fellowship</head>

<p>
Our Message And Mission
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Sane Mind</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Soft Heart</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Sound Body</hi>
</p>

<p>
Before entering upon an explanation of
the teachings of the Rosicrucians, it may be
well to say a word about them and about the
place they hold in the evolution of humanity.
</p>

<p>
For reasons to be given later these teachings
advocate the dualistic view; they hold
that man is a spirit enfolding all the powers
of God as the seed enfolds the plant, and
that these powers are being slowly unfolded
by a series of existences in a gradually improving
earthy body; also that this process
of development has been performed under
the guidance of exalted beings who are yet
ordering our steps, though in a decreasing
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
measure, as we gradually acquire intellect
and will. These exalted Beings, though unseen
to the physical eyes, are nevertheless
potent factors in all affairs of life, and give
to the various groups of humanity lessons
which will most efficiently promote the
growth of their spiritual powers. In fact,
the earth may be likened to a vast training
school in which there are pupils of varying
age and ability as we find it in one of our
own schools. There are the savages, living
and worshipping under most primitive conditions,
seeing in stick or stone a God. Then,
as man progresses onwards and upwards in
the scale of civilization, we find a higher and
higher conception of Deity, which has flowered
here in our Western World in the beautiful
Christian religion that now furnishes
our spiritual inspiration and incentive to
improve.
</p>

<p>
These various religions have been given
to each group of humanity by the exalted
beings whom we know in the Christian religion
as the Recording Angels, whose wonderful
prevision enable them to view the
trend of even so unstable a quantity as the
human mind, and thus they are enabled to
determine what steps are necessary to lead
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
our enfoldment along the lines congruous to
the highest universal good.
</p>

<p>
When we study the history of the ancient
nations we shall find that at about six hundred
years B. C. a great spiritual wave had
its inception on the Eastern shores of the
Pacific Ocean where the great Confucian Religion
accelerated the progress of the Chinese
nation, then also the Religion of the
Buddha commenced to win its millions of
adherents in India, and still further West
we have the lofty philosophy of Pythagoras.
Each system was suited to the needs of the
particular people to whom it was sent. Then
came the period of the Sceptics, in Greece,
and later, traveling westward the same spiritual
wave is manifested as the Christian
religion of the so-called <q>Dark Ages</q> when
the dogma of a dominant church compelled
belief from the whole of Western Europe.
</p>

<p>
It is a law in the universe that a wave of
spiritual awakening is always followed by
a period of doubting materialism, each
phase is necessary in order that the spirit
may receive equal development of heart and
intellect without being carried too far in
either direction. The Great Beings aforementioned,
Who care for our progress, always
<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>
take steps to safeguard humanity
against that danger, and when they foresaw
the wave of materialism which commenced
in the sixteenth century with the
birth of our modern Science, they took
steps to protect the West as they had formerly
safeguarded the East against the
Sceptics who were held in check by the Mystery
schools.
</p>

<p>
In the thirteenth century there appeared
in central Europe a great spiritual teacher
whose symbolical name was
</p>

<p>
Christian Rosenkreuz.<lb/>
or<lb/>
Christian Rose Cross.
</p>

<p>
who founded the mysterious Order of the
Rosy Cross, concerning which so many speculations
have been made and so little has
become known to the world at large, for it
is the Mystery school of the West and is
only open to those who have attained the
stage of spiritual unfoldment necessary to
be initiated in its secrets concerning the
Science of Life and Being.
</p>

<p>
If we are so far developed that we are
able to leave our dense physical body and
take a soul flight into interplanetary space
we shall find that the ultimate physical atom
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
is spherical in shape like our earth; it is a
ball. When we take a number of balls of
even size and group them around one, it will
take just twelve balls to hide a thirteenth
within. Thus the twelve visible and the one
hidden are numbers revealing a cosmic relationship
and as all Mystery Orders are
based upon cosmic lines, they are composed
of twelve members gathered around a thirteenth
who is the invisible <emph>head</emph>.
</p>

<p>
There are seven colors in the spectrum:
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and
violet. But between the violet and the red
there are still other five colors which are
invisible to the physical eye but reveal
themselves to the spiritual sight. In every
Mystery Order there are also seven brothers
who at times go out into the world and there
perform whatever work may be necessary to
advance the people among whom they serve,
but five are never seen outside the temple.
They work with and teach those alone who
have passed through certain stages of spiritual
unfoldment and are able to visit the
temple in their spiritual bodies; a feat
taught in the first initiation which usually
takes place outside the temple as it is not
<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>
convenient for all to visit that place physically.
</p>

<p>
Let not the reader imagine that this initiation
makes the pupil a Rosicrucian, it does
not, any more than admission to a High
School makes a boy a member of the faculty.
Nor does he become a Rosicrucian even after
having passed through all the nine degrees
of this or any other Mystery School.
The Rosicrucians are Hierophants of the
lesser Mysteries, and beyond them there are
still schools wherein Greater Mysteries are
taught. Those who have advanced through
the lesser Mysteries and have become pupils
of the Greater Mysteries are called Adepts,
but even they have not reached the exalted
standpoint of the twelve Brothers of the Rosicrucian
Order or the Hierophants of any
other lesser Mystery School any more than
the freshman at college has attained to the
knowledge and position of a teacher in the
High school from which he has just graduated.
</p>

<p>
A later work will deal with initiation, but
we may say here that the door of a genuine
Mystery School is not unlocked by a golden
key, but is only opened as a reward for meritorious
service to humanity and any one
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
who advertises himself as a Rosicrucian or
makes a charge for tuition, by either of
those acts shows himself to be a charlatan.
The true pupil of any Mystery School is far
too modest to advertise the fact, he will
scorn all titles or honors from men, he will
have no regard for riches save the riches of
love given to him by those whom it becomes
his privilege to help and teach.
</p>

<p>
In the centuries that have gone by since
the Rosicrucian Order was first formed they
have worked quietly and secretly, aiming to
mould the thought of Western Europe
through the works of Paracelsus, Boehme,
Bacon, Shakespeare, Fludd and others. Each
night at midnight when the physical activities
of the day are at their lowest ebb, and
the spiritual impulse at its highest flood
tide, they have sent out from their temple
soul-stirring vibrations to counteract materialism
and to further the development of
soul powers. To their activities we owe the
gradual spiritualization of our once so materialistic
science.
</p>

<p>
With the commencement of the twentieth
century a further step was taken. It was realized
that something must be done to make
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
religion scientific as well as to make science
religious, in order that they may ultimately
blend; for at the present time heart and intellect
are divorced. The heart instinctively
feels the truth of religious teachings concerning
such wonderful mysteries as the Immaculate
Conception (the Mystic Birth), the
Crucifixion (the Mystic Death), the cleansing
blood, the atonement, and other doctrines of
the Church, which the intellect refuses to believe,
as they are incapable of demonstration,
and seemingly at war with natural law. Material
advancement may be furthered when
intellect is dominant and the longings of the
heart unsatisfied, but soul growth will be retarded
until the heart also receives satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
In order to give the world a teaching so
blended that it will satisfy both the mind and
heart, a messenger must be found and instructed.
Certain unusual qualifications were
necessary, and the first one chosen failed to
pass a certain test after several years had
been spent to prepare him for the work to be
done.
</p>

<p>
It is well said that there is a time to sow,
and a time to reap, and that there are certain
times for all the works of life, and in accordance
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
with this law of periodicity each impulse
in spiritual uplift must also be undertaken at
an appropriate time to be successful. The
first and sixth decades of each century are
particularly propitious to commence the promulgation
of new spiritual teachings. Therefore
the Rosicrucians were much concerned at
this failure, for only five years were left of
the first decade of the twentieth century.
</p>

<p>
Their second choice of a messenger fell
upon the present writer, though he knew it
not at the time, and by shaping circumstances
about him they made it possible for him to
begin a period of preparation for the work
they desired him to do. Three years later,
when he had gone to Germany, also because
of circumstances shaped by the invisible
Brotherhood, and was on the verge of despair
at the discovery that the light which was the
object of his quest, was only a jack-o-lantern,
the Brothers of the Rosicrucian Order applied
the test to see whether he would be a
faithful messenger and give the teachings
they desired to entrust to him, to the world.
And when he had passed the trial they gave
him the monumental solution of the problem
of existence first published in <q><hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian
Cosmo Conception</hi></q> in November, 1909,
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
more than a year before the expiration of the
first decade of the twentieth century. This
book marked a new era in so-called <q>occult</q>
literature, and the many editions which have
since been published, as well as the thousands
of letters which continue to come to the
author, are speaking testimonies to the fact
that people are finding in this teaching a satisfaction
they have long sought elsewhere in
vain.
</p>

<p>
The Rosicrucians teach that all great religions
have been given to the people among
whom they are found, by Divine Intelligences
who designed each system of worship to suit
the needs of the race or nation to whom it
was given. A primitive people cannot respond
to a lofty and sublime religion, and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. What helps one race would hinder
another, and in pursuance of the same
policy there has been devised a system of
soul-unfoldment suited specially to the Western
people, who are racially and temperamentally
unfit to undergo the discipline of the
Eastern school, which was designed for the
more backward Hindoos.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship</hi>
</p>

<p>
For the purpose of promulgating the Rosicrucian
teachings in the Western World, the
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
Rosicrucian Fellowship was founded in 1909.
It is the herald of the Aquarian Age, when
the Sun by its precessional passage through
the constellation Aquarius will bring out all
the intellectual and spiritual potencies in man
which are symbolized by that sign. As heat
from a fire warms all objects within the
sphere of its radiations, so also the Aquarian
ray will raise the earth's vibrations to a pitch
we are as yet unable to comprehend, though
we have demonstrations of the <emph>material</emph> workings
of this force in the inventions which have
revolutionized life within the memory of the
present generation. We have wondered at
the X-ray, which sees through the human
body, but each one has a sense latent which
when evolved will enable him to see through
any number of bodies or to any distance. We
marvel at the telephone conversations across
the continent of America, but each has within
a latent sense of speech and hearing that is
far more acute; we are surprised at the exploits
of ships under sea and in the sky, but
we are all capable of passage under water or
through the sky; nay, more, we may pass
unscathed through the solid rock and the raging
fire, if we know how, and lightning itself
is slow compared to the speed with which we
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
may travel. This sounds like a fairy tale today,
as did Jules Verne's stories a generation
ago, but the Aquarian Age will witness the
realization of these dreams, and ever so much
more that we still do not even dream of. Such
faculties will then be the possessions of large
numbers of people who will have gradually
evolved them as previously the ability to walk,
speak, hear, and see, were developed.
</p>

<p>
Therein lies a great danger, for, obviously,
anyone endowed with such faculties may use
them to the greatest detriment of the world
at large, unless restrained by a spirit of
unselfishness and an all-embracing altruism.
Therefore religion is needed today as never
before, to foster love and fellow-feeling
among humanity so that it may be prepared to
use the great gifts in store for it wisely and
well. This need of religion is specially felt in
a certain class where the ether is more loosely
knit to the physical atoms than in the majority,
and on that account they are now beginning
to sense the Aquarian vibrations.
</p>

<p>
This class is again divided in two groups.
In one the intellect is dominant, and the people
in that class therefore seek to grasp the
spiritual mysteries out of curiosity from the
viewpoint of cold reason. They pursue the
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
path of knowledge for the sake of knowledge,
considering that an end in itself. The idea
that knowledge is of value only when put to
practical constructive use does not seem to
have presented itself to them. This class we
may call <emph>occultists</emph>.
</p>

<p>
The other group does not care for knowledge,
but feels an inner urge God-ward, and
pursues the path of devotion to the high ideal
set before them in Christ, doing the deeds that
He did as far their flesh will permit, and this
in time results in an interior illumination
which brings with it all the knowledge obtained
by the other class, and much more.
This class we may describe as <emph>mystics</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Certain dangers confront each of the two
groups. If the occultist obtains illumination
and evolves within himself the latent spiritual
faculties, he may use them for the furtherance
of his personal objects, to the great detriment
of his fellow-men. That is black magic, and
the punishment which it <emph>automatically</emph> calls
down upon the head of the perpetrator is so
awful that it is best to draw the veil over it.
The mystic may also err because of ignorance,
and fall into the meshes of nature's law, but
being actuated by love, his mistakes will never
be very serious, and as he grows in grace the
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
soundless voice within his heart will speak
more distinctly to teach him the way.
</p>

<p>
The Rosicrucian Fellowship endeavors to
prepare the world in general, and the sensitives
of the two groups in particular, for the
awakening of the latent powers in man, so
that all may be guided safely through the
danger-zone and be as well fitted as possible
to use these new faculties. Effort is made to
blend the love without which Paul declared a
knowledge of all mysteries worthless, with a
mystic knowledge rooted and grounded in
love, so that the pupils of this school may
become <emph>living</emph> exponents of this blended soul-science
of the Western Wisdom School, and
gradually educate humanity at large in the
virtues necessary to make the possession of
higher powers safe.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Note</hi>:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Pages 19 to 26 inclusive, describing Mt. Ecclesia,
have been transferred to the back of the book.</hi>
(Transcriber's Note: They are pages <ref target='Pg191'>191</ref> through
<ref target='Pg200'>200</ref>.)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter II. The Problem of Life and Its Solution</head>

<p>
THE PROBLEM OF LIFE.
</p>

<p>
Among all the vicissitudes of life, which
vary in each individual's experience, there
is one event which sooner or later comes
to everyone&mdash;Death! No matter what our
station in life, whether the life lived has
been a laudable one or the reverse, whether
great achievements have marked our path
among men, whether health or sickness have
been our lot, whether we have been famous
and surrounded by a host of admiring friends
or have wandered unknown through the years
of our life, at some time there comes a moment
when we stand alone before the portal
of death and are forced to take the leap into
the dark.
</p>

<p>
The thought of this leap and of what lies
beyond must inevitably force itself upon
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
every thinking person. In the years of
youth and health, when the bark of our life
sails upon seas of prosperity, when all appears
beautiful and bright, we may put the
thought behind us, but there will surely
come a time in the life of every thinking person
when the problem of life and death forces
itself upon his consciousness and refuses
to be set aside. Neither will it help
him to accept the ready made solution of
anyone else without thought and in blind belief,
for this is a basic problem which every
one must solve for himself or herself in order
to obtain satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
Upon the Eastern edge of the Desert of
Sahara there stands the world-famous
Sphinx with its inscrutable face turned toward
the East, ever greeting the sun as its
rising rays herald the newborn day. It was
said in the Greek myth that it was the wont
of this monster to ask a riddle of each traveler.
She devoured those who could not answer,
but when Oedipus solved the riddle she
destroyed herself.
</p>

<p>
The riddle which she asked of men was
the riddle of life and death, a query which
is as relevant today as ever, and which each
one must answer or be devoured in the jaws
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
of death. But when once a person has found
the solution to the problem, it will appear
that in reality there is no death, that what
appears so, is but a change from one state
of <emph>existence</emph> to another. Thus, for the man
who finds the true solution to the riddle of
life, the sphinx of death has ceased to exist,
and he can lift his voice in the triumphant
cry <q>Oh death where is thy sting, oh
grave where is thy victory.</q>
</p>

<p>
Various theories of life have been advocated
to solve this problem of life. We may
divide them into two classes, namely <emph>the
monistic theory</emph>, which holds that all the
facts of life can be explained by reference
to this visible world wherein we live, and <emph>the
dualistic theory</emph>, which refers part of the
phenomenon of life to another world which
is now invisible to us.
</p>

<p>
Raphael in his famous painting <q>the
School of Athens</q> has most aptly pictured
to us the attitude of these two schools of
thought. We see upon that marvelous
painting a Greek Court such as those wherein
philosophers were once wont to congregate.
Upon the various steps which lead into
the building a large number of men are
engaged in deep conversation, but in the
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
center at the top of the steps stand two
figures, supposedly of Plato and Aristotle,
one pointing upwards, the other towards the
earth, each looking the other in the face,
mutely, but with deeply concentrated will.
Each seeking to convince the other that his
attitude is right for each bears the conviction
in his heart. One holds that he is of
the earth earthy, that he has come from the
dust and that thereto he will return, the
other firmly advocates the position that
there is a higher something which has always
existed and will continue regardless of
whether the body wherein it now dwells
holds together or not.
</p>

<p>
The question who is right is still an open
one with the majority of mankind. Millions
of tons of paper and printer's ink have
been used in futile attempts to settle it by
argument, but it will always remain open to
all who have not solved the riddle themselves,
for it is a basic problem, a part of the
life experience of every human being to
settle that question, and therefore no one
can give us the solution ready made for our
acceptance. All that can be done by those
who have really solved the problem, is to
show to others the line along which they
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
have found the solution, and thus direct the
inquirer how he also may arrive at a conclusion.
</p>

<p>
That is the aim of this little book; not to
offer a solution to the problem of life to be
taken blindly, on faith in the author's ability
of investigation. The teachings herein
set forth are those handed down by the
Great Western Mystery School of the Rosicrucian
Order and are the result of the concurrent
testimony of a long line of trained
Seers given to the author and supplemented
by his own independent investigation of the
realms traversed by the spirit in its cyclic
path from the invisible world to this plane
of existence and back again.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, the student is warned that
the writer may have misunderstood some of
the teachings and that despite the greatest
care he may have taken a wrong view of
that which he believes to have seen in the invisible
world where the possibilities of making
a mistake are legion. Here in the world
which we view about us the forms are stable
and do not easily change, but in the world
around us which is perceptible only by the
spiritual sight, we may say that there is in reality
no form, but that all is life. At least the
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
forms are so changeable that the metamorphosis
recounted in fairy stories is discounted
there to an amazing degree, and therefore we
have the surprising revelations of mediums
and other untrained clairvoyants who,
though they may be perfectly honest, are deceived
by illusions of <emph>form</emph> which is evanescent,
because they are incapable of viewing
the <emph>life</emph> that is the permanent basis of that
form.
</p>

<p>
We must learn to see in this world. The
new-born babe has no conception of distance
and will reach for things far, far beyond its
grasp until it has learned to gauge its capacity.
A blind man who acquires the faculty
of sight, or has it restored by an operation,
will at first be inclined to close his eyes
when moving from place to place, and declare
that it is easier to walk by feeling than
by sight; that is because he has not learned
to use his newly acquired faculty. Similarly
the man whose spiritual vision has been
newly opened requires to be trained, in fact
he is in much greater need thereof than the
babe and the blind man already mentioned.
Denied that training he would be like a new-born
babe placed in a nursery where the
walls are lined with mirrors of different
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
convex and concave curvatures, which
would distort its own shape and the forms
of its attendants. If allowed to grow up in
such surroundings and unable to see the real
shapes of itself and its nurses it would naturally
believe that it saw many different and
distorted shapes where in reality the mirrors
were responsible for the illusion. Were the
persons concerned in such an experiment
and the child taken out of the illusory surroundings,
it would be incapable of recognizing
them until the matter had been
properly explained. There are similar
dangers of illusion to those who have developed
spiritual sight, until they have been
trained to discount the refraction and to
view the <emph>life</emph> which is permanent and stable,
disregarding the <emph>form</emph> which is evanescent
and changeable. The danger of getting
things out of focus always remains however
and is so subtle that the writer feels an imperative
duty to warn his readers to take all
statements concerning the unseen world
with the proverbial grain of salt, for he has
no intention to deceive. He is therefore inclined
rather to magnify than to minimize
his limitations and would advise the student
to accept nothing from the author's pen
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
without reasoning it out for himself. Thus,
if he is deceived, he will be self-deceived and
the author is blameless.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Three Theories of Life.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Only three noteworthy theories have been
offered as solutions to the riddle of existence
and in order that the reader may be
able to make the important choice between
them, we will state briefly what they are and
give some of the arguments which lead us
to advocate the doctrine of Rebirth as the
method which favors soul-growth and the ultimate
attainment of perfection, thus offering
the best solution to the problem of life.
</p>

<p>
1) <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Materialistic Theory</hi> <hi rend='italic'>teaches that
life is but a short journey from the cradle to
the grave, that there is no higher intelligence
in the universe than man; that his
mind is produced by certain correlations of
matter and that therefore death, and dissolution
of the body terminate existence.</hi>
</p>

<p>
There was a day when the arguments of
Materialistic philosophers seemed convincing,
but as science advances it discovers
more and more that there is a spiritual side
to the universe. That life and consciousness
may exist without being able to give us a
sign, has been amply proven in the cases
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
where a person who was entranced and
thought dead for days has suddenly awakened
and told all that had taken place around
the body. Such eminent scientists as Sir
Oliver Lodge, Camille Flammarion, Lombroso
and other men of highest intelligence and
scientific training, have unequivocally stated
as the result of their investigations, that the
intelligence which we call man survives
death of the body and lives on in our midst
as independently of whether we see them or
not as light and color exist all about the
blind man regardless of the fact that he
does not perceive them. These scientists
have reached their conclusion after years of
careful investigation. They have found that
the so-called dead can, and under certain circumstances
do, communicate with us in such
a manner that mistake is out of the question.
We maintain that their testimony is worth
more than the argument of materialism to
the contrary, for it is based upon years of
careful investigation, it is in harmony with
such well established laws as <hi rend='italic'>the law of conservation
of matter</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>the law of conservation
of energy</hi>. Mind is a form of energy,
and immune from destruction as claimed by
the materialist. Therefore we disbar the
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
materialistic theory as unsound, because out
of harmony with the laws of nature and with
well established facts.
</p>

<p>
2) <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Theory of Theology</hi> <hi rend='italic'>claims that
just prior to each birth a soul is created by
God and enters into the world where it lives
for a time varying from a few minutes to a
few score of years; that at the end of this
short span of life it returns through the portal
of death to the invisible beyond, where
it remains forever in a condition of happiness
or misery according to the deeds done
in the body during the few years it lived here</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Plato insisted upon the necessity of a
clear definition of terms as a basis of argument
and we contend that that is as
necessary in discussing the problem of life
from the Bible point of view as in arguments
from the platonic standpoint. According
to the Bible man is a composite being
consisting of body, soul and spirit. The two
latter are usually taken to be synonymous,
but we insist that they are not interchangeable
and present the following to support
our dictum.
</p>

<p>
All things are in a state of vibration. Vibrations
from objects in our surroundings
are constantly impinging upon us and carry
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
to our senses a cognition of the external
world. The vibrations in the ether act upon
our eyes so that we see, and vibrations in the
air transmit sounds to the ear.
</p>

<p>
We also breathe the ether which is
charged with pictures of our surroundings
and the sounds in our environment, so
that by means of the breath we receive at
each moment of our life, <emph>internally</emph> an accurate
picture of our external surroundings.
</p>

<p>
That is a scientific proposition. Science
does not explain what becomes of these vibrations
however, but according to the Rosicrucian
Mystery teaching they are transmitted
to the blood, and then etched upon a
little atom in the heart as automatically as
a moving picture is imprinted upon the sensitized
film, and a record of sounds is engraven
upon the phonographic disc. This
breath-record starts with the first breath of
the newborn babe and ends only with the
last gasp of the dying man, and <q>soul</q> is a
product of the breath. Genesis also shows
the connection between breath and soul in the
words: <q>And the Lord God formed man of
the dust of the ground, and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life; and man became
a living soul</q> (The same word: <foreign rend='italic'>nephesh</foreign>, is
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
translated breath and soul in the above quotation.)
</p>

<p>
In the post mortem existence the breath-record
is disposed of. The good acts of life
produce feelings of pleasure and the intensity
of attraction incorporates them into the
spirit as soul-power. <emph>Thus the breath-records
of our good acts are the soul which is
saved</emph>, for by the union with the spirit they
become immortal. As they accumulate life
after life, we become more soulful and they
are thus also the basis of soulgrowth.
</p>

<p>
The record of our evil acts is also derived
from our breath in the moments when
they were committed. The pain and suffering
they bring cause the spirit to expel the
breath-record from its being in Purgatory.
As that cannot exist independently of the
life-giving spirit, the breath-record of our
sins disintegrates upon expurgation, and
thus we see that <q>the soul that sinneth, it
shall die.</q> The memory of the suffering
incidental to expurgation however, remains
with the spirit as <emph>conscience</emph>, to deter from
repetition of the same evil in later lives.
</p>

<p>
Thus both our good and evil acts are recorded
through the agency of the breath,
which is therefore the basis of the soul, but
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
while the breath-record of good acts amalgamates
with the spirit and lives on forever
as an immortal soul, the breath-record of evil
deeds is disintegrated; it is the soul that sinneth
and dies.
</p>

<p>
While the Bible teaches that immortality
of the soul is conditional upon well-doing, it
makes no distinction in respect of the spirit.
The statement is clear and emphatic that
when ... <q>The silver cord be loosed ... then
shall the dust return to the earth as it was
and the spirit shall return to God who gave
it.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus the Bible teaches that the body is
made of dust and returns thereto, that a
part of the soul generated in the breath is
perishable, but that the spirit survives bodily
death and persists forever. Therefore a
<q>lost soul</q> in the common acceptance of
that term is not a Bible teaching, for the
spirit is uncreate and eternal as God Himself,
and therefore the orthodox theory cannot
be true.
</p>

<p>
3) <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Theory of Rebirths</hi> <hi rend='italic'>which teaches
that each spirit is an integral part of God,
that it enfolds all divine possibilities as the
acorn enfolds the oak; that by means of
many existences in an earthy body of gradually
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
improving texture its latent powers
are being slowly unfolded and become available
as dynamic energy; that none can be
lost but that all will ultimately attain to perfection
and reunion with God, each bringing
with it the accumulated experience which is
the fruitage of its pilgrimage through matter.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Or, as we may poetically express it:
</p>

<p>
WE ARE ETERNAL.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>On whistling stormcloud; on Zephyrus wing,</l>
<l>The Spirit-choir loud the World-anthems sing</l>
<l>Hark! Lis't to their voice <q rend='pre'>we have passed through death's door</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>There's no Death; rejoice! life lives evermore.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>We are, have always been, will ever be.</l>
<l>We are a portion of Eternity</l>
<l>Older than Creation, a part of One Great Whole,</l>
<l>Is each Individual and immortal Soul.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>

<lg>
<l>On Time's whirring loom our garments we've wrought</l>
<l>Eternally weave we on network of Thought,</l>
<l>Our kin and our country, by Mind brought to birth,</l>
<l>Were patterned in heaven ere molded on earth.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>We have shone in the Jewel and danced on the Wave,</l>
<l>We have sparkled in Fire defying the grave;</l>
<l>Through shapes everchanging, in size, kind and name</l>
<l>Our individual essence still is the same.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>And when we have reached to the highest of all,</l>
<l>The gradations of growth our minds shall recall</l>
<l>So that link by link we may join them together</l>
<l>And trace step by step the way we reached thither.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thus in time we shall know, if only we do</l>
<l>What lifts, ennobles, is right and true.</l>
<l>With kindness to all; with malice to none,</l>
<l>That in and through us God's will may be done.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>

<p>
We venture to make the assertion that
there is but one sin: <hi rend='italic'>Ignorance</hi> and but one
salvation: <hi rend='italic'>Applied Knowledge</hi>. Even the
wisest among us know but little of what may
be learned, however, and no one has attained
to perfection, or can attain in one single
short life, but we note that everywhere in nature
slow persistent unfoldment makes for
higher and higher development of every
thing and we call this process evolution.
</p>

<p>
One of the chief characteristics of evolution
lies in the fact that it manifests in alternating
periods of activity and rest. The
busy summer, when all things upon earth are
exerting themselves to bring forth, is followed
by the rest and inactivity of winter. The
busy day alternates with the quiet of night.
The ebb of the ocean is succeeded by the
flood-tide. Thus, as all other things move in
cycles, the life that expresses itself here upon
earth for a few years is not to be thought
of as ended when death has been reached,
but as surely as the sun rises in the morning
after having set at night, will the life that
was ended by the death of one body be taken
up again in a new vehicle and in a different
environment.
</p>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<p>
This earth may in fact be likened to a
school to which we return life after life to
learn new lessons, as our children go to
school day after day to increase their knowledge.
The child sleeps through the night
which intervenes between two days at school
and the spirit also has its rest from active
life between death and a new birth. There
are also different classes in this world-school
which correspond to the various
grades from kindergarten to college. In the
lower classes we find spirits who have gone
to the school of life but a few times, they
are savages now, but in time they will become
wiser and better than we are, and we
ourselves shall progress in future lives to
spiritual heights of which we cannot even conceive
at the present. If we apply ourselves to
learn the lessons of life, we shall of
course advance much faster in the school of
life than if we dilly-dally and idle our time
away. This, on the same principle which governs
in one of our own institutions of learning.
</p>

<p>
We are not here then, by the caprice of
God. He has not placed one in clover and
another in a desert nor has He given one a
healthy body so that he may live at ease
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
from pain and sickness, while He placed another
in poor circumstances with never a
rest from pain. But what we are, we are, on
account of our own diligence or negligence,
and what we shall be in the future depends
upon what we will to be and not upon Divine
caprice or upon inexorable fate. No matter
what the circumstances, it lies with us to
master them, or to be mastered, as we will.
Sir Edwin Arnold puts the teaching most
beautifully in his <q>Light of Asia.</q>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The Books say well, my Brothers! each man's life</q></l>
<l>The outcome of his former living is;</l>
<l>The bygone wrongs bring forth sorrows and woes</l>
<l>The bygone right breeds bliss.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Each has such lordship as the loftiest ones</l>
<l>Nay for with powers around, above, below</l>
<l>As with all flesh and whatsoever lives</l>
<l><emph>Act</emph> maketh joy or woe.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Who toiled a slave may come anew a prince</l>
<l>For gentle worthiness and merit won;</l>
<l>Who ruled a king may wander earth in rags</l>
<l><q rend='post'>For things done or undone.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<p>
Or, as an unknown poet says:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>One ship sails East and another sails West</q></l>
<l>With the self same winds that blow.</l>
<l>'Tis the set of the sail, and not the gale,</l>
<l>Which determines the way they go.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>As the winds of the sea are the ways of fate</l>
<l>As we voyage along through life.</l>
<l>'Tis the act of the soul, which determines the goal</l>
<l><q rend='post'>And not the calm or the strife.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
When we wish to engage someone to undertake
a certain mission we choose some one
whom we think particularly fitted to fulfill
the requirements and we must suppose that
a Divine Being would use at least as much
common sense, and not choose anyone to go
his errand who was not fitted therefor. So
when we read in the Bible that Samson was
foreordained to be the slayer of the Philistines
and that Jeremiah was predestined to
be a prophet, it is but logical to suppose that
they must have been particularly suited to
such occupation. John the Baptist also, was
born to be a herald of the coming Savior and
to preach the kingdom of God which is to
take the place of the kingdom of men.
</p>

<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>

<p>
Had these people had no previous training,
how could they have developed such a
fitness to fulfill their various missions, and
if they had been fitted, how else could they
have received their training if not in earlier
lives?
</p>

<p>
The Jews believed in the Doctrine of Rebirth
or they would not have asked John the
Baptist if he were Elijah, as recorded in the
first chapter of John. The Apostles of
Christ also held the belief as we may see
from the incident recorded in the sixteenth
chapter of Matthew where the Christ asked
them the question: <q>Whom do men say that
I the Son of Man am?</q> The Apostles replied:
<q>Some say that Thou art John the
Baptist; some, Elias; and others Jeremias or
one of the Prophets.</q> Upon this occasion
the Christ tacitly assented to the teaching
of Rebirth because He did not correct the disciples
as would have been His plain duty in
His capacity as teacher, when the pupils entertained
a mistaken idea.
</p>

<p>
But to Nicodemus He said unequivocally:
<q>Except a man be born again, he cannot see
the kingdom of God</q> and in the eleventh
chapter of Matthew, the fourteenth verse, He
said, speaking of John the Baptist: <q><emph>this
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
is Elijah</emph>,</q> in the seventeenth chapter of
Matthew, the twelfth verse, He said: <q>Elijah
has come already and they knew him not,
but have done to him whatsoever they listed, ...
then the disciples understood
that he spoke to them of John the Baptist.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus we maintain that the Doctrine of Rebirth
offers the only solution to the problem
of life which is in harmony with the laws of
nature, which answers the ethical requirements
of the case and permits us to love God
without blinding our reason to the inequalities
of life and the varying circumstances
which give to a few the ease and comfort, the
health and wealth, which are denied to the
many.
</p>

<p>
The theory of Heredity advanced by Materialists
applies only to the <emph>form</emph>, for as a
carpenter uses material from a certain pile
of lumber to build a house in which he afterwards
lives, so does the spirit take the substance
wherewith to build its house from the
parents. The carpenter cannot build a house
of hard wood from spruce lumber and the
spirit also must build a body which is like
those from which the material was taken, but
the theory of Heredity does not apply upon
the moral plane, for it is a notorious fact,
that in the rogues galleries of America and
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
Europe there is no case where both father
and son are represented. Thus the sons of
criminals, though they have the tendencies
to crime, keep out of the clutches of the law.
Neither will Heredity hold good upon the
plane of the intellect, for many cases may
be cited where a genius and an idiot spring
from the same stock. The great Cuvier,
whose brain was of about the same weight,
as Daniel Webster's, and whose intellect was
as great, had five children who all died of
paresis, the brother of Alexander the Great
was an idiot, and thus we hold that another
solution must be found to account for the
facts of life.
</p>

<p>
The law of Rebirth coupled with its companion
law, the law of Causation does that.
When we die after one life, we return to
earth later, under circumstances determined
by the manner in which we lived before. The
gambler is drawn to pool parlors and race
tracks to associate with others of like taste,
the musician is attracted to the concert halls
and music studios, by congenial spirits, and
the returning Ego also carries with it its
likes and dislikes which cause it to seek parents
among the class to which it belongs.
</p>

<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>

<p>
But then someone will point to cases where
we find people of entirely opposite tastes living
lives of torture, because grouped in the
same family, and forced by circumstances to
stay there contrary to their wills. But that
does not vitiate the law in the slightest, in
each life we contract certain obligations
which cannot then be fulfilled. Perhaps we
have run away from a duty such as the care
of an invalid relative and have met death
without coming to a realization of our mistake.
That relative upon the other hand may
have suffered severely from our neglect, and
have stored up a bitterness against us before
death terminates the suffering. Death and
the subsequent removal to another environment
does not pay our debts in this life,
any more than the removal from the city
where we now live to another place will pay
the debts we have contracted prior to our removal.
It is therefore quite possible that
the two who have injured each other as described,
may find themselves members of
the same family. Then, whether they remember
the past grudge or not, the old enmity
will assert itself and cause them to
hate anew until the consequent discomfort
forces them to tolerate each other, and perhaps
<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>
later they may learn to love where they
hated.
</p>

<p>
The question also arises in the mind of inquirers:
If we have been here before why do
we not remember? And the answer is, that
while most people are not aware of how their
previous existences were spent, there are
others who have a very distinct recollection
of previous lives. A friend of the writer's
for instance, when living in France, one day
started to read to her son about a certain
city where they were then going upon a bicycle
tour, and the boy exclaimed: you do
not need to tell me about that mother. I
know that city, I lived there and was killed!
He then commenced to describe the city and
also a certain bridge. Later he took his
mother to that bridge and showed her the
spot where he had met death centuries before.
Another friend travelling in Ireland
saw a scene which she recognized and she also
described to the party the scene around
the bend of the road which she had never
seen in this life, so it must have been a memory
from a previous life. Numerous other
instances could be given where such minor
flashes of memory reveal to us glimpses from
a past life. The verified case in which a little
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
three year old girl in Santa Barbara described
her life and death has been given in
the Rosicrucian Cosmo Conception. It is perhaps
the most conclusive evidence as it
hinges on the veracity of a child too young
to have learned deception.
</p>

<p>
This theory of life does not rest upon speculation
however, it is one of the first facts of
life demonstrated to the pupil of a Mystery
school. He is taught to watch a child in the
act of dying, also, to watch it in the invisible
world from day to day, until it comes to a
new birth a year or two later. Then he
knows with absolute certainty that we return
to earth to reap in a future life what we now
sow.
</p>

<p>
The reason for taking a child to watch in
preference to an adult, is, that the child is reborn
very quickly, for its short life on earth
has borne but few fruits and these are soon
assimilated, while the adult who has lived a
long life, and had much experience remains in
the invisible worlds for centuries, so that the
pupil could not watch him from death to rebirth.
The cause of infant mortality will be
explained later, here we merely desire to emphasize
the fact that it is within the range
of possibilities of every one without exception
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
to become able to know at first hand
that which is here taught.
</p>

<p>
The average interval between two earth-lives
is about a thousand years. It is determined
by the movement of the sun known
to astronomers as <hi rend='italic'>precession of the equinox</hi>,
by which the sun moves through one of the
signs of the Zodiac in about 2100 years. During
that time the conditions upon earth have
changed so much that the spirit will find entirely
new experiences here, and therefore it
returns.
</p>

<p>
The Great Leaders of evolution always obtain
the maximum benefit from each condition
designed by them, and as the experiences
in the same social conditions are very
different in the case of a man from what
they are for a woman, the human spirit takes
birth twice during the 2100 years measured
by the precession of the equinox as already
explained, it is born once as a man and another
time as a woman. Such is the rule, but
it is subject to whatever modifications may
be necessary to facilitate reaping what the
spirit has sown, as required under the law of
Causation which works hand in hand with the
law of Rebirth. Thus, at times a spirit may
be brought to birth long ere the thousand
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
years have expired, in order to fulfill a certain
mission, or it may be detained in the invisible
worlds after the time when it should
have come to birth according to the strict requirements
of a blind law. The laws of nature
are not that however. They are Great
Intelligences who always subordinate minor
considerations to higher ends, and under their
beneficent guidance we are constantly progressing
from life to life under conditions exactly
suited to each individual, until in time
we shall attain to a higher evolution and become
Supermen.
</p>

<p>
Oliver Wendell Holmes has so beautifully
voiced that aspiration and its consummation
in the lines:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Build thee more stately mansions Oh! my soul,</q></l>
<l>As the swift seasons roll,</l>
<l>Leave thy low-vaulted past;</l>
<l>Let each new temple, nobler than the last,</l>
<l>Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast.</l>
<l>Till thou at length art free,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Leaving thy outgrown shell by life's unresting sea.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter III. The Visible and the Invisible World</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Chemical Region.</hi>
</p>

<p>
If one who is capable of consciously using
his spiritual body with the same facility that
we now use our physical vehicles should
glide away from the earth into interplanetary
space, the earth and the various other planets
of our solar system would appear to him
to be composed of three kinds of matter,
roughly speaking. The densest matter,
which is our visible earth, would appear to
him as being the center of the ball as the
yolk is in the center of an egg. Around that
nucleus he would observe a finer grade of
matter similarly disposed in relation to the
central mass, as the white of the egg is disposed
outside the yolk. Upon a little closer
investigation he would also discover that this
second kind of substance permeates the solid
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
earth to the very center, even as the blood
percolates through the more solid parts of our
flesh. Outside both of these mingling layers
of matter he would observe a still finer, third
layer corresponding to the shell of the egg,
except that this third layer is the finest most
subtile of the three grades of matter, and
that it inter-penetrates both of the two inner
layers.
</p>

<p>
As already said, the central mass, spiritually
seen, is our visible world, composed of
solids, liquids and gases. They constitute
the earth, its atmosphere, and also the ether,
of which physical science speaks hypothetically
as permeating the atomic substance of
all chemical elements. The second layer of
matter is called the Desire World and the
outermost layer is called the World of
Thought.
</p>

<p>
A little reflection upon the subject will
make clear that just such a constitution is
necessary to account for facts of life as we
see them. All forms in the world about us
are built from chemical substances: solids,
liquids and gases, but in so far that they do
move, these forms obey a separate and distinct
impulse, and when this impelling energy
leaves, the form becomes inert. The steam
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
engine rotates under the impetus of an invisible
gas called steam. Before steam filled
its cylinder, the engine stood still, and when
the impelling force is shut off its motion
again ceases. The dynamo rotates under
the still more subtile influence of an electric
current which may also cause the click of a
telegraph instrument or the ring of an electric
bell, but the dynamo ceases its swift
whirl and the persistent ring of the electric
bell becomes mute when the invisible electricity
is switched off. The form of the bird,
the animal and the human being also cease
their motion when the inner force which we
call <emph>life</emph> has winged its invisible way.
</p>

<p>
All forms are impelled into motion by desire:&mdash;the
bird and the animal roam land
and air in their desire to secure food and shelter,
or for the purpose of breeding, man is also
moved by these desires, but has in addition
other and higher incentives to spur him to
effort, among them is desire for rapidity of
motion which led him to construct the steam
engine and other devices that move in obedience
to <emph>his</emph> desire.
</p>

<p>
If there were no iron in the mountains
man could not build machines. If there were
no clay in the soil, the bony structure of the
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
skeleton would be an impossibility, and if
there were no Physical World at all, with its
solids, liquids and gases, this dense body of
ours could never have come into existence.
Reasoning along similar lines it must be at
once apparent that if there were no Desire
World composed of desire-stuff, we should
have no way of forming feelings, emotions
and desires. A planet composed of the materials
we perceive with our <emph>physical</emph> eyes
and of no other substances, might be the
home of plants which grow unconsciously,
but have no desires to cause them to move.
The human and animal kingdoms however,
would be impossibilities.
</p>

<p>
Furthermore, there is in the world a vast
number of things, from the simplest and
most crude instruments, to the most intricate
and cunning devices which have been constructed
by the hand of man. These reveal
the fact of man's thought and ingenuity.
Thought must have a source as well as <emph>form</emph>
and <emph>feeling</emph>. We saw that it was necessary
to have the requisite material in order to
build a steam engine or a body and we reasoned
from the fact that in order to obtain
material to express <emph>desire</emph> there must also be
a world composed of desire stuff. Carrying
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
our argument to its logical conclusion, we also
hold that unless a World of Thought provides
a reservoir of mind stuff upon which
we may draw, it would be impossible for us to
think and invent the things which we see in
even the lowest civilization.
</p>

<p>
Thus it will be clear that the division of a
planet into worlds is not based on fanciful
metaphysical speculation, but is logically
necessary in the economy of nature. Therefore
it must be taken into consideration by
any one who would study and aim to understand
the inner nature of things. When we
see the street cars moving along our streets,
it does not explain to say that the motor is
driven by electricity of so many amperes at
so many volts. These names only add to our
confusion until we have thoroughly studied
the science of electricity and then we shall
find that the mystery deepens, for while the
street car belongs to the world of <emph>inert form</emph>
perceptible to our vision, the electric current
which moves it is indigenous to the realm
of <emph>force</emph>, the invisible Desire World, and the
thought which created and guides it, comes
from the still more subtile World of Thought
which is the home world of the human spirit,
the Ego.
</p>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<p>
It may be objected that this line of argument
makes a simple matter exceedingly intricate,
but a little reflection will soon show
the fallacy of such a contention. Viewed
superficially any of the sciences seem extremely
simple; anatomically we may divide
the body into flesh and bone, chemically we
may make the simple divisions between solid,
liquid and gas, but to thoroughly master the
science of anatomy it is necessary to spend
years in close application and learn to know
all the little nerves, the ligaments which
bind articulations between various parts of
the bony structure, to study the several
kinds of tissue and their disposition in our
system where they form the bones, muscles,
glands, etc., which in the aggregate we know
as the human body. To properly understand
the science of chemistry we must
study the valence of the atom which determines
the power of combination of the
various elements, together with other niceties,
such as atomic weight, density, etc.
New wonders are constantly opening up to
the most experienced chemist, who understands
best the immensity of his chosen
science.
</p>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<p>
The youngest lawyer, fresh from law
school knows more about the most intricate
cases, in his own estimation, than the judges
upon the Supreme Court bench who spend
long hours, weeks and months, seriously deliberating
over their decisions. But those
who, without having studied, think they understand
and are fitted to discourse upon
the greatest of all sciences, the science of
Life and Being, make a greater mistake.
After years of patient study, of holy life
spent in close application, a man is oftentimes
perplexed at the immensity of the subject
he studies. He finds it to be so vast in
both the direction of the great and small
that it baffles description, that language
fails, and that the tongue must remain mute.
Therefore we hold, (and we speak from
knowledge gained through years of close
study and investigation), that the finer distinctions
which we have made, and shall
make, are not at all arbitrary, but absolutely
necessary as are divisions and distinctions
made in anatomy or chemistry.
</p>

<p>
No form in the physical world has feeling
in the true sense of that word. It is the indwelling
life which feels, as we may readily
see from the fact that a body which responded
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
to the slightest touch while instinct with
life, exhibits no sensation whatever even
when cut to pieces after the life has fled. Demonstrations
have been made by scientists,
particularly by Professor Bose of Calcutta,
to show that there is feeling in dead animal
tissue and even in tin and other metal, but
we maintain that the diagrams which seem
to support his contentions in reality demonstrate
only a response to impacts similar to
the rebound of a rubber ball, and that must
not be confused with such feelings as <emph>love</emph>,
<emph>hate</emph>, <emph>sympathy</emph> and <emph>aversion</emph>. Goethe also,
in his novel <q>Elective Affinities,</q> (Wahlverwandtschaft),
brings out some beautiful
illustrations wherein he makes it seem as if
atoms loved and hated, from the fact that
some elements combine readily while other
substances refuse to amalgamate, a phenomenon
produced by the different rates of
speed at which various elements vibrate and
an unequal inclination of their axes. Only
where there is sentient life can there be feelings
of pleasure and pain, sorrow or joy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Etheric Region.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In addition to the solids, liquids and gases
which compose the <hi rend='italic'>Chemical Region</hi> of the
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
Physical World there is also a finer grade of
matter called Ether, which permeates the
atomic structure of the earth and its atmosphere
substantially as science teaches. Scientists
have never seen, nor have they
weighed, measured or analyzed this substance,
but they infer that it must exist in
order to account for transmission of light
and various other phenomena. If it were
possible for us to live in a room from which
the air had been exhausted we might speak
at the top of our voices, we might ring the
largest bell or we might even discharge a
cannon close to our ear and we should hear
no sound, for air is the medium which transmits
sound vibrations to the tympanum of
our ear, and that would be lacking. But if
an electric light were lighted, we should at
once perceive its rays; it would illumine the
room despite the lack of air. Hence there
must be a substance, capable of being set into
vibration, between the electric light and
our eyes. That medium scientists call ether,
but it is so subtile that no instrument has
been devised whereby it may be measured
or analyzed and therefore the scientists are
without much information concerning it,
though forced to postulate its existence.
</p>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<p>
We do not seek to belittle the achievements
of modern scientists, we have the greatest
admiration for them and we entertain high
expectations of what ambitions they may yet
realize, but we perceive a limitation in the
fact, that all discoveries of the past have
been made by the invention of wonderful instruments
applied in a most ingenious manner
to solve seemingly insoluble and baffling
problems. The strength of science lies
vested in its instruments, for the scientist
may say to anyone: Go, procure a number
of glasses ground in a certain manner, insert
them in a tube, direct that tube toward
a certain point in the sky where now nothing
appears to your naked eye. You will then
see a beautiful star called Uranus. If his
directions are followed, anyone is <emph>quickly and
without preparation</emph>, able to demonstrate for
himself the truth of the scientist's assertion.
But while the instruments of science are its
tower of strength they also mark the end of
its field of investigation, for it is impossible
to contact the spirit world with <emph>physical</emph> instruments,
so the research of occultists begins
where the physical scientist finds his
limit and are carried on by <emph>spiritual</emph> means.
</p>

<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>

<p>
These investigations are as thorough and
as reliable as researches by material
scientists, but not as easily demonstrable to
the general public. Spiritual powers lie
dormant within every human being, and
when awakened, they compensate for both
telescope and microscope, they enable their
possessor to investigate, <foreign rend='italic'>instanter</foreign>, things beyond
the veil of matter, but they are only developed
by a patient application and continuance
in well doing extended over years, and
few are they who have faith to start upon
the path to attainment or perseverance to go
through with the ordeal. Therefore the occultist's
assertions are not generally credited.
</p>

<p>
We can readily see that long probation must
precede attainment, for a person equipped
with spiritual sight is able to penetrate
walls of houses as easily as we walk through
the atmosphere, able to read at will the innermost
thoughts of those about him; if not
actuated by the most pure and unselfish motives,
he would be a scourge to humanity.
Therefore that power is safeguarded as we
would withhold the dynamite bomb from an
anarchist and from the well-intentioned but
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
ignorant person, or, as we withhold match
and powder barrel from a child.
</p>

<p>
In the hands of an experienced engineer
the dynamite bomb may be used to open a
highway of commerce, and an intelligent
farmer may use gunpowder to good account
in clearing his field of tree-stumps, but in
the hands of an ill-intentioned criminal or ignorant
child an explosive may wreck much
property and end many lives. The force is
the same, but used differently, according to
the ability or intention of the user, it may
produce results of a diametrically opposite
nature. So it is also with spiritual powers,
there is a time-lock upon them, as upon a
bank safe, which keeps out all until they have
earned the privilege and the time is ripe for
its exercise.
</p>

<p>
As already said, the ether is physical matter
and responsive to the same laws which
govern other physical substances upon this
plane of existence. Therefore it requires
but a slight extension of <emph>physical</emph> sight to
see ether, (which is disposed in four grades
of density), the blue haze seen in mountain
canyons is in fact ether of the kind known
to occult investigators as <q><emph>chemical ether</emph>.</q>
Many people who see this ether, are unaware
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
that they are possessed of a faculty
not enjoyed by all. Others, who have developed
spiritual sight are not endowed
with etheric vision, a fact which seems an
anomaly until the subject of clairvoyance is
thoroughly understood.
</p>

<p>
The reason is, that as ether is physical matter,
etheric sight depends upon the sensitiveness
of the optic nerve while spiritual sight
is acquired by developing latent vibratory
powers in two little organs situated in the
brain: the Pituitary body and the Pineal
gland. Nearsighted people even, may have
etheric vision. Though unable to read the
print in a book, they may be able to <q>see
through a wall,</q> owing to the fact that their
optic nerve responds more rapidly to fine
than to coarse vibrations.
</p>

<p>
When anyone views an object with etheric
sight he sees <emph>through</emph> that object in a manner
similar to the way an x-ray penetrates
opaque substances. If he looks at a sewing
machine, he will perceive, first an outer
casing; then, the works within, and behind
both, the casing furthest away from him.
</p>

<p>
If he has developed the grade of spiritual
vision which opens the Desire World to
him and he looks at the same object, he will
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
see it both inside and out. If he looks closely,
he will perceive every little atom spinning
upon its axis and no part or particle
will be excluded from his perception.
</p>

<p>
But if his spiritual sight has been developed
in such a measure that he is capable of
viewing the sewing machine with the vision
peculiar to the World of Thought, he will behold
a cavity where he had previously seen
the form.
</p>

<p>
Things seen with etheric vision are very
much alike in color, they are nearly reddish-blue,
purple or violet, according to the density
of the ether, but when we view any object
with the spiritual sight pertaining to
the Desire World, it scintillates and coruscates
in a thousand ever changing colors so
indescribably beautiful that they can only
be compared to living fire, and the writer
therefore calls this grade of vision <hi rend='italic'>color
sight</hi>, but when the spiritual vision of the
World of Thought is the medium of perception,
the seer finds that in addition to still
more beautiful colors, there issues from the
cavity described a constant flow of a certain
harmonious <emph>tone</emph>. Thus this world wherein
we now consciously live and which we perceive
by means of our physical senses is preeminently
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
the world of <emph>form</emph>, the Desire
World is particularly the world of <emph>color</emph> and
the World of Thought is the realm of <emph>tone</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Because of the relative proximity or distance
of these worlds, a statue, a <emph>form</emph>, withstands
the ravages of time for millenniums,
but the <emph>colors</emph> upon a painting fade in far
shorter time, for they come from the Desire
World, and <emph>music</emph> which is native to the
World furthest removed from us, the World
of Thought, is like a will-o-the-wisp which
none may catch or hold, it is gone again as
soon as it has made its appearance. But
there is in color and music a compensation
for this increasing evanescence.
</p>

<p>
The statue is cold and dead as the mineral
of which it is composed and has attractions
for but few though its <emph>form is</emph> a tangible
reality.
</p>

<p>
The forms upon a painting are illusory
yet they express <emph>life</emph>, on account of the <emph>color</emph>
which has come from a region where nothing
is inert and lifeless. Therefore the painting
is enjoyed by many.
</p>

<p>
Music is intangible and ephemeral, but it
comes from the home world of the spirit and
though so fleeting it is recognized by the spirit
as a <emph>soul-speech</emph> fresh from the celestial
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
realms, an echo from the home whence we
are now exiled, and therefore it touches a
cord in our being, regardless of whether we
realize the true cause or not.
</p>

<p>
Thus we see that there are various grades
of spiritual sight, each suited to the superphysical
realm which it opens to our perception:
Etheric vision, color vision and
tonal vision.
</p>

<p>
The occult investigator finds that ether is
of four kinds, or grades of density:
</p>

<p>
The Chemical Ether,<lb/>
The Life Ether,<lb/>
The Light Ether,<lb/>
The Reflecting Ether.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Chemical Ether</hi> is the avenue of expression
for forces promoting assimilation,
growth and the maintenance of form.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Life Ether</hi> is the vantage ground of
forces active in propagation, or the building
of new forms.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Light Ether</hi> transmits the motive
power of the sun along the various nerves of
<emph>living</emph> bodies and makes motion possible.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Reflecting Ether</hi> receives an impression
of all that is, lives and moves. It also
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
records each change, in a similar manner as
the film upon a moving picture machine. In
this record mediums and psychometrists
may read the past, upon the same principle
as, under proper conditions, moving pictures
are reproduced time and again.
</p>

<p>
We have been speaking of ether as an
avenue of <emph>forces</emph>, a word which conveys no
meaning to the average mind, because force
is invisible. But to an occult investigator
the forces are not merely names such as
steam, electricity, etc. He finds them to be intelligent
beings of varying grades, both sub
and superhuman. What we call <q>laws of nature,</q>
are great intelligences which guide
more elemental beings in accordance with
certain rules designed to further their evolution.
</p>

<p>
In the Middle Ages, when many people
were still endowed with a remnant of <emph>negative</emph>
clairvoyance, they spoke of Gnomes and
Elves or Fairies, which roamed about the
mountains and forests. These were the
<emph>earth</emph> spirits. They also told of the Undine
or <emph>water</emph>-sprite, which inhabited rivers and
streams, of Sylphs which were said to dwell
in the mists above moat and moor, as air
spirits, but not much was said of the Salamanders,
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
as they are, fire spirits, and therefore
not so easily detected, or so readily accessible
to the majority of people.
</p>

<p>
The old folk stories are now regarded as
superstitions, but as a matter of fact, one
endowed with etheric vision may yet perceive
the little gnomes building green chlorophyll
into the leaves of plants and giving to
flowers the multiplicity of delicate tints
which delight our eyes.
</p>

<p>
Scientists have attempted time and again
to offer an adequate explanation of the phenomenon
of wind and storm but have failed
signally, nor can they succeed while they
seek a mechanical solution to what is really
a manifestation of life. Could they see the
hosts of sylphs winging their way hither
and thither, they would <emph>know</emph> who and what
is responsible for the fickleness of the wind;
could they watch a storm at sea from the
etheric view-point they would perceive that
the saying <q>the war of the elements</q> is not
an empty phrase, for the heaving sea is truly
then a battlefield of sylphs and undines and
the howling tempest is the war cry of spirits
in the air.
</p>

<p>
Also the salamanders are found everywhere
and no fire is lighted without their
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
help, but they are mostly active underground.
They are responsible for explosions
and volcanic eruptions.
</p>

<p>
The classes of beings which we have mentioned
are still sub-human, but will all at some
time reach a stage in evolution corresponding
to the human, though under different
circumstances from those under which we
evolve. But at present the wonderful intelligences
we speak of as the laws of nature,
marshall the armies of less evolved entities
mentioned.
</p>

<p>
To arrive at a better understanding of
what these various beings are, and their relation
to us, we may take an illustration:
Let us suppose that a mechanic is making
an engine, and meanwhile a dog is watching
him. It <emph>sees</emph> the man at his labor, and how
he uses various tools to shape his materials,
also how, from the crude iron, steel, brass
and other metals the engine slowly takes
shape. The dog is a being from a lower evolution
and does not comprehend the purpose
of the mechanic but it <emph>sees</emph> both the
workman, his labor and the result thereof,
which manifests as an engine.
</p>

<p>
Let us now suppose that the dog were
able to see the materials which slowly
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
change their shape, assemble and become an
engine but that it is unable to perceive the
workman and to see the work he does. The
dog would then be in the same relation to the
mechanic as we are to the great intelligences
we call laws of nature, and their assistants,
the nature spirits, for we behold the manifestations
of their work as <emph>force</emph> moving
matter in various ways but always under
immutable conditions.
</p>

<p>
In the ether we may also observe the
angels, whose densest body is made of that
material, as our dense body is formed of
gases, liquids and solids. These beings are
one step beyond the human stage, as we are
a degree in advance of the animal evolution.
We have never been animals like our present
fauna, however, but at a previous stage
in the development of our planet we had an
animal-like constitution. Then the angels
were human, though they have never possessed
a dense body such as ours, nor ever
functioned in any material denser than
ether. At some time, in a future condition,
the earth will again become ethereal. Then
man will be <emph>like</emph> the angels. Therefore the
Bible tells us that man was made <emph>a little
while</emph> lower than the angels (Paul's letter to
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
the Hebrews, second chapter, seventh verse;
<hi rend='italic'>see marginal reading</hi>.)
</p>

<p>
As ether is the avenue of vital, creative
forces, and as angels are such expert builders
of ether, we may readily understand that
they are eminently fitted to be warders of
the propagative forces in plant, animal and
man. All through the Bible we find them
thus engaged: Two <emph>angels</emph> came to Abraham
and announced the birth of Isaac, they <emph>promised</emph>
a child to the man who had obeyed God.
Later <emph>these same angels</emph> destroyed Sodom
for <emph>abuse of the creative force</emph>. <emph>Angels</emph> foretold
<emph>to the parents</emph> of Samuel and Samson,
the birth of these giants of brain and brawn.
To Elizabeth came the <emph>angel</emph> (not archangel)
Gabriel and announced the birth of John,
later he appeared also to Mary with the message
that she was chosen to bear Jesus.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Desire World.</hi>
</p>

<p>
When spiritual sight is developed so
that it becomes possible to behold the Desire
World, many wonders confront the newcomer,
for conditions are so widely different
from what they are here, that a description
must sound quite as incredible as a fairy
tale to anyone who has not himself seen them.
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
Many cannot even believe that such a
world exists, and that other people can see
that which is invisible to them, yet some people
are blind to the beauties of this world
which we see. A man who was born blind,
may say to us: I know that this world exists,
I can hear, I can smell, I can taste and
above all I can feel but when you speak of
light and of color, they are nonexistent to
me. You say that you <emph>see</emph> these things, I
cannot believe it for I cannot <emph>see</emph> myself.
You say that light and color are all about
me, but none of the senses at my command
reveal them to me and I do not believe that
the sense you call <emph>sight</emph> exists. I think you
suffer from hallucinations. We might sympathize
very sincerely with the poor man
who is thus afflicted, but his scepticism, reasonings
and objections and sneers notwithstanding
we would be obliged to maintain
that we perceive light and color.
</p>

<p>
The man whose spiritual sight has been
awakened is in a similar position with respect
to those who do not perceive the Desire
World of which he speaks. If the blind
man acquires the faculty of sight by an operation,
his eyes are opened and he will be
compelled to assert the existence of light and
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
color which he formerly denied, and when
spiritual sight is acquired by anyone, he also
perceives for himself the facts related by
others. Neither is it an argument against
the existence of spiritual realms that seers
are at variance in their descriptions of conditions
in the invisible world. We need but to
look into books on travel, and compare stories
brought home by explorers of China, India
or Africa and we shall find them differing
widely and often contradictory, because
each traveler saw things from his own standpoint,
under other conditions than those met
by his brother authors, and we maintain that
the man who has read most widely these
varying tales concerning a certain Country
<emph>and wrestled with the contradictions of narrators</emph>,
will have a more comprehensive idea
of the country or people of whom he has
read, than the man who has only read one
story assented to by all the authors. Similarly,
the varying stories of visitors to the
Desire World are of value, because giving a
fuller view, and more rounded, than if all
had seen things from the same angle.
</p>

<p>
In this world matter and force are widely
different. The chief characteristic of matter
here is <emph>inertia</emph>: the tendency to remain at
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
rest until acted upon by a force which sets it
in motion. In the Desire World, on the contrary,
force and matter are almost indistinguishable
one from the other. We might almost
describe desire-stuff as force-matter,
for it is in incessant motion, responsive to
the slightest <emph>feeling</emph> of a vast multitude of
beings which populate this wonderful world
in nature. We often speak of the <q>teeming
millions</q> of China and India, even of our
vast cities, London, New York, Paris or Chicago,
we consider them overcrowded in the
extreme, yet even the densest population of
any spot upon earth is sparsely inhabited
compared with the crowded conditions of the
Desire World. No inconvenience is felt by
any of the denizens of that realm, however,
for, while in this world two things cannot
occupy the same space at the same time, it is
different there. A number of people and
things may exist <emph>in the same place at the
same time</emph> and be engaged in most diverse
activities, regardless of what others are doing,
such is the wonderful elasticity of desire
stuff. As an illustration we may mention a
case where the writer while attending religious
service, plainly perceived at the altar
certain beings interested in furthering that
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
service and working to achieve that end. At
the same time there drifted through the room
and the altar, a table at which four persons
were engaged in playing cards. They were as
oblivious to the existence of the beings engaged
in furthering our religious service, as
though these did not exist.
</p>

<p>
The Desire World is the abode of those who
have died, for some time subsequent to that
event, and we may mention in the above connection
that the so-called <q>dead</q> very often
stay for a long while among their still living
friends. Unseen by their relatives they go
about the familiar rooms. At first they are
often unaware of the condition mentioned:
<q>that two persons may be in the same place
at the same time,</q> and when they seat themselves
in a chair or at the table, a living relative
may take the supposedly vacant seat.
The man we mistakenly call dead will at first
hurry out of his seat to escape being sat upon,
but he soon learns that being sat upon does
not hurt him in his altered condition, and that
he may remain in his chair regardless of the
fact that his living relative is also sitting
there.
</p>

<p>
In the lower regions of the Desire World
the whole body of each being may be seen, but
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
in the highest regions only the head seems to
remain. Raphael, who like many other people
in the middle ages was gifted with a so-called
<emph>second sight</emph>, pictured that condition
for us in his Sistine Madonna, now in the
Dresden Art Gallery, where Madonna and
the Christ-child are represented as floating
in a golden atmosphere and surrounded by a
host of genie-heads: conditions which the occult
investigator knows to be in harmony with
actual facts.
</p>

<p>
Among the entities who are, so to speak,
<q><emph>native</emph></q> to that realm of nature, none are
perhaps better known to the Christian world
than the Archangels. These exalted Beings
were human at a time in the earth's history
when we were yet plant-like. Since then we
have advanced two steps: through the animal
and to the human stage of development. The
present Archangels have also made two steps
in progression; one, in which they were similar
to what the angels are now, and another
step which made them what we call Archangels.
</p>

<p>
Their densest body, though differing from
ours in shape, and made of desire stuff, is
used by them as a vehicle of consciousness in
the same manner that we use our body. They
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
are expert manipulators of forces in the Desire
World, and these forces, as we shall see,
move all the world to action. Therefore the
Archangels work with humanity <emph>industrially</emph>
and <emph>politically</emph> as arbitrators of the destiny
of peoples and nations. The Angels may be
said to be <emph>family</emph>-spirits whose mission is to
unite a few spirits as members of a
family, and cement them with ties of
blood and love of kin, while the Archangels
may be called race and national spirits, as
they unite whole nations by patriotism or love
of home and country. They are responsible
for the rise and fall of nations, they give war
or peace, victory or defeat as it serves the
best interests of the people they rule. This
we may see, for instance, from the book of
Daniel, where the Archangel Michael (not to
be confounded with the Michael, who is ambassador
from the sun to the earth), is called
the prince of the children of Israel. Another
Archangel tells Daniel, (in the tenth chapter)
that he intends to fight the prince of Persia
by means of the Greeks.
</p>

<p>
There are varying grades of intelligence
among human beings, some are qualified to
hold high and lofty positions entirely beyond
the ability of others. So it is also among
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
higher beings, not all Archangels are fitted to
govern a nation and rule the destiny of a race,
people or tribe, some are not fitted to rule
human beings at all, but as the animals also
have a desire nature these lower grades of
Archangels govern the animals as group-spirits
and evolve to higher capacity thereby.
</p>

<p>
The work of the race spirits is readily observable
in the people it governs. The lower
in the scale of evolution the people, the more
they show a certain racial likeness. That is
due to the work of the race spirit. One
national spirit is responsible for the swarthy
complexion common to Italians, for instance,
while another causes the Scandinavians to be
blond. In the more advanced types of humanity
there is a wider divergence from the
common type, due to the individualized Ego,
which thus expresses in form and feature its
own particular idiosyncrasies. Among the
lower types of humanity such as Mongolians,
native African Negroes and South Sea
Islanders, the resemblance of individuals in
each tribe makes it almost impossible for civilized
Westerners to distinguish between
them. Among animals, where the separate
spirit is not individualized and self-conscious,
the resemblance is not only much more
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
marked physically but extends even to traits
and characteristics. We may write the biography
of a man, for the experiences of each
varies from that of others and his acts are
different, but we cannot write the biography
of an animal for members of each tribe all act
alike under similar circumstances. If we desire
to know the facts about Edward VII, it
would profit us nothing to study the life of
the Prince-Consort, his father, or of George
V, his son, as both would be entirely different
from Edward. In order to find out what
manner of man he was, we must study his
own individual life. If, on the other hand,
we wish to know the characteristics of beavers,
we may observe any individual of the
tribe, and when we have studied its idiosyncrasies,
we shall know the traits of the whole
tribe of beavers. What we call <q>instinct,</q> is
in reality the dictates of group-spirits which
govern separate individuals of its tribe
telepathically, as it were.
</p>

<p>
The ancient Egyptians knew of these animal
group spirits and sketched many of them,
in a crude way, upon their temples and
tombs. Such figures with a human body and
an animal head actually live in the desire
world. They may be spoken to, and will be
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
found much more intelligent than the average
human being.
</p>

<p>
That statement brings up another peculiarity
of conditions in the Desire World in respect
of language. Here in this World human
speech is so diversified that there are
countries where people who live only a few
miles apart speak a dialect so different that
they understand each other with great difficulty,
and each nation has its own language
that varies altogether from the speech of
other peoples.
</p>

<p>
In the lower Regions of the Desire World,
there is the same diversity of tongues as on
earth, and the so-called <q>dead</q> of one nation
find it impossible to converse with those who
lived in another country. Hence linguistic
accomplishments are of great value to the
<q>Invisible Helpers</q>, of whom we shall hear
later, as their sphere of usefulness is enormously
extended by that ability.
</p>

<p>
Even apart from difference of language
our mode of speech is exceedingly productive
of misunderstandings. The same words often
convey most opposite ideas to different
minds. If we speak of a <q>body of water</q>,
one person may think we mean a lake of small
dimensions, the thoughts of another may be
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
directed to the great American Lakes and a
third person's thoughts may be turned towards
the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans. If we
speak of a <q>light</q>, one may think of a gas-light,
another of an electric Arc-lamp, or if
we say <q>red</q>, one person may think we mean
a delicate shade of pink and another gets the
idea of crimson. The misunderstandings of
what words mean goes even farther, as illustrated
in the following.
</p>

<p>
The writer once opened a reading room in a
large city where he lectured, and invited his
audience to make use thereof. Among those
who availed themselves of the opportunity
was a gentleman who had for many years
been a veritable <q>metaphysical tramp,</q>
roaming from lecture to lecture, hearing the
teachings of everybody and practicing nothing.
Like the Athenians on Mars' Hill, he
was always looking for something <q>new,</q>
particularly in the line of phenomena, and his
mind was in that seething chaotic state which
is one of the most prominent symptoms of
<q>mental indigestion.</q>
</p>

<p>
Having attended a number of our lectures
he knew from the program that: <q>The lecturer
does not give readings, or cast horoscopes
<emph>for pay</emph>.</q> But seeing on the door of
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
the newly opened reading room, the legend:
<q>Free Reading Room,</q> his erratic mind at
once jumped to the conclusion that although
we were opposed to telling fortunes for pay,
we were now going to give free readings of
the future in the Free Reading Room. He
was much disappointed that we did not intend
to tell fortunes, either gratis or for a consideration,
and we changed our sign to <q>Free
Library</q> in order to obviate a repetition of
the error.
</p>

<p>
In the higher Regions of the Desire World
the confusion of tongues gives place to a universal
mode of expression which absolutely
prevents misunderstandings of our meaning.
There each of our thoughts takes a definite
form and color perceptible to all, and this
thought-symbol emits a certain tone, which is
not a word, but it conveys our meaning to the
one we address no matter what language he
spoke on earth.
</p>

<p>
To arrive at an understanding of how such
a universal language becomes possible and is
at once comprehended by all, without preparation,
we may take as an illustration the
manner in which a musician reads music. A
German or a Polish composer may write an
opera. Each has his own peculiar terminology
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
and expresses it in his own language.
When that opera is to be played by an Italian
band master, or by a Spanish or American
musician, it need not be translated, the notes
and symbols upon the page are a universally
understood language of symbols which is intelligible
to musicians of no matter what nationality.
Similarly with figures, the German
counts: ein, zwei, drei; the Frenchman says:
un, deux, trois, and in English we use the
words: one, two, three, but the figures: 1, 2, 3,
though differently spoken, are intelligible to
all and mean the same. There is no possibility
of misunderstanding in the cases of either
music or figures. Thus it is also with the universal
language peculiar to the higher Regions
of the Desire World and the still more
subtile realms in nature, it is intelligible to
all, an exact mode of expression.
</p>

<p>
Returning to our description of the entities
commonly met with in the lower Desire
World, we may note that other systems of religion
than the Egyptian, already mentioned,
have spoken of various classes of beings native
to these realms. The Zoroastrian Religion,
for instance, mentions <hi rend='italic'>Seven Ameshaspends</hi>
and the Izzards as having dominion over certain
days in the month and certain months in
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
the year. The Christian religion speaks of
Seven Spirits before the Throne, which are
the same beings the Persians called Ameshaspends.
Each of them rules over two months
in the year while the seventh: Michael, the
highest, is their leader, for he is ambassador
from the sun to the earth, the others are ambassadors
from the planets. The Catholic religion
with its abundant occult information
takes most notice of these <q><emph>star-angels</emph></q> and
knows considerable about their influence upon
the affairs of the earth.
</p>

<p>
The Ameshaspends, however, do not inhabit
the lower Regions of the Desire World but
influence the Izzards. According to the old
Persian legend these beings are divisible into
one group of twenty-eight classes, and another
group of three classes. Each of these
classes has dominion over, or takes the lead of
all the other classes on one certain day of the
month. They regulate the weather conditions
on that day and work with animal and man
in particular. At least the twenty-eight classes
do that, the other group of three classes
has nothing to do with animals, because they
have only twenty-eight pair of spinal nerves,
while human beings have thirty-one. Thus
animals are attuned to the lunar month of
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
twenty-eight days, while man is correlated to
the solar month of thirty or thirty-one days.
The ancient Persians were astronomers but
not physiologists, they had no means of knowing
the different nervous constitution of animal
and man, but they saw clairvoyantly
these superphysical beings, they noted and
recorded their work with animal and men
and our own anatomical investigations may
show us the reason for these divisions of the
classes of Izzards recorded in that ancient
system of philosophy.
</p>

<p>
Still another class of beings should be
mentioned: those who have entered the Desire
World through the gate of death and are
now hidden from our physical vision. These
so-called <q>dead</q> are in fact much more alive
than any of us, who are tied to a dense body
and subject to all its limitations, who are
forced to slowly drag this clog along with us
at the rate of a few miles an hour, who
must expend such an enormous amount of
energy upon propelling that vehicle that we
are easily and quickly tired, even when in
the best of health and who are often confined
to a bed, sometimes for years, by the
indisposition of this heavy mortal coil. But
when that is once shed and the freed spirit
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
can again function in its spiritual body, sickness
is an unknown condition and distance
is annihilated, or at least practically so, for
though it was necessary for the Savior to
liken the freed spirit to the wind which blows
where it listeth, that simile gives but a poor
description of what actually takes place in
soul flights. Time is nonexistent there, as
we shall presently explain, so the writer has
never been able to time himself, but has on
several occasions timed others when he was
in the physical body and they speeding
through space upon a certain errand. Distances
such as from the Pacific Coast to Europe,
the delivery of a short message there
and the return to the body has been accomplished
in slightly less than one minute.
Therefore our assertion, that those whom we
call dead are in reality much more alive than
we, is well founded in facts.
</p>

<p>
We spoke of the dense body in which we
now live, as a <q>clog</q> and a <q>fetter.</q> It must
not be inferred, however, that we sympathize
with the attitude of certain people who, when
they have learned with what ease soul-flights
are accomplished, go about bemoaning the
fact that they are now imprisoned. They are
constantly thinking of, and longing for, the day
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
when they shall be able to leave this mortal
coil behind and fly away in their spiritual
body. Such an attitude of mind is decidedly
mistaken, the great and wise beings who are
invisible leaders of our evolution have not
placed us here to no purpose. Valuable lessons
are to be learned in this visible world
wherein we dwell, that cannot be learned in
any other realm of nature, and the very conditions
of density and inertia whereof such
people complain, are factors which make it
possible to acquire the knowledge this world
is designed to give. This fact was so amply
illustrated in a recent experience of the writer:&mdash;A
friend had been studying occultism
for a number of years but had not studied
astrology.
</p>

<p>
Last year she became aroused to the importance
of this branch of study as a key to
self knowledge and a means of understanding
the natures of others, also of developing
the compassion for their errors, so necessary
in the cultivation of love of one's neighbor.
Love of our neighbor the Savior enjoined
upon us as the Supreme Commandment
which is the fulfillment of all laws, and as
Astrology teaches us to <emph>bear</emph> and <emph>forbear</emph>, it
helps as nothing else can in the development
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
of the supreme virtue. She therefore joined
one of the classes started in Los Angeles by
the writer, but a sudden illness quickly ended
in death and thus terminated her study of
the subject in the physical body, ere it was
well begun.
</p>

<p>
Upon one of many occasions when she visited
the writer subsequent to her release
from the body, she deplored the fact that it
seemed so difficult to make headway in her
study of astrology. The writer advised continued
attendance at the classes, and suggested
that she could surely get someone <q>on
the other side</q> to help her study.
</p>

<p>
At this she exclaimed impatiently: <q>Oh
yes! of course I attend the classes, I have
done so right along; I have also found a
friend who helps me here. But you cannot
imagine how difficult it is to concentrate here
upon mathematical calculations and the judgment
of a horoscope or in fact upon any subject
here, where every little thought-current
takes you miles away from your study. I
used to think it difficult to concentrate when
I had a physical body, but it is not a circumstance
to the obstacles which face the student
here.</q>
</p>

<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>

<p>
The physical body was an anchor to her,
and it is that to all of us. Being dense, it is
also to a great extent impervious to disturbing
influences from which the more subtle
spiritual bodies do not shield us. It enables
us to bring our ideas to a logical conclusion
with far less effort at concentration than is
necessary in that realm where all is in such
incessant and turbulent motion. Thus we are
gradually developing the faculty of holding
our thoughts to a center by existence in this
world, and we should value our opportunities
here, rather than deplore the limitations
which help in one direction more than they
fetter in another. In fact, we should never
deplore any condition, each has its lesson. If
we try to learn what that lesson is and to
assimilate the experience which may be extracted
therefrom, we are wiser than those
who waste time in vain regrets.
</p>

<p>
We said there is no time in the Desire
World, and the reader will readily understand
that such must be the case from the
fact, already mentioned, that nothing there
is opaque.
</p>

<p>
In this world the rotation of the opaque
earth upon its axis is responsible for the alternating
conditions of day and night. We
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
call it Day&mdash;when the spot where we live is
turned towards the sun and its rays illumine
our environment, but when our home is
turned away from the sun and its rays obstructed
by the opaque earth we term the resulting
darkness: Night. The passage of the
earth in its orbit around the sun produces
the seasons and the year, which are our divisions
of time. But in the Desire World
where all is light there is but one long day.
The spirit is not there fettered by a heavy
physical body, so it does not need sleep and
existence is unbroken. Spiritual substances
are not subject to contraction and expansion
such as arise here from heat and cold, hence
summer and winter are also non-existent.
Thus there is nothing to differentiate one
moment from another in respect of the conditions
of light and darkness, summer and
winter, which mark time for us. Therefore,
while the so-called <q>dead</q> may have a very
accurate memory of time as regards the life
they lived here in the body, they are usually
unable to tell anything about the chronological
relation of events which have happened
to them in the Desire World, and it is a very
common thing to find that they do not even
know how many years have elapsed since
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
they passed out from this plane of existence.
Only students of the Stellar Science are able
to calculate the passage of time after their
demise.
</p>

<p>
When the occult investigator wishes to
study an event in the past history of man, he
may most readily call up the picture from
<emph>the memory of nature</emph>, but if he desires to fix
the time of the incident, he will be obliged to
count backwards by the motion of the heavenly
bodies. For that purpose he generally
uses the measure provided by the sun's precession:
Each year the sun crosses the earth's
equator about the twenty-first of March. Then
day and night are of even length, therefore
this is called the Vernal equinox. But on account
of a certain wabbling motion of the
earth's axis, the sun does not cross over at
the same place in the Zodiac, it reaches the
equator a little too early, it <emph>precedes</emph>, year by
year it moves <emph>backwards</emph> a little. At the time
of the birth of Christ, for instance, the Vernal
Equinox was in about seven degrees of
the Zodiacal sign Aries. During the two
thousand years which intervene between
that event and the present time, the sun has
moved <emph>backwards</emph> about twenty-seven degrees,
so that it is now in about ten degrees
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
of the sign Pisces. It moves around the
whole circle of the Zodiac in about 25,868
years. The occult investigator may therefore
count back the number of signs, or
whole circles, which the sun has <emph>preceded</emph> between
the present day and the time of the
event he is investigating. Thus he has by
the use of the heavenly time keepers a very
approximately correct measure of time even
though he is in the Desire World and that is
another reason for studying the Stellar Science.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The World of Thought.</hi>
</p>

<p>
When we have attained the spiritual development
necessary to consciously enter the
World of Thought and leave the Desire
World, which is the realm of light and color,
we pass through a condition which the occult
investigator calls The Great Silence.
</p>

<p>
As previously stated, the higher Regions
of the Desire World exhibit the marked peculiarity
of blending form and sound, but
when one passes through the Great Silence,
all the world seems to disappear and the spirit
has the feeling of floating in an ocean of
intense light, utterly alone, yet absolutely
fearless, since unimbued with a sense of its
form or sound, nor past or future, but all is
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
one eternal NOW. There seems to be neither
pleasure nor pain and yet there is no absence
of feeling but it all seems to center in the one
idea:&mdash;<q><emph>I am</emph></q>! The human Ego stands
face to face with itself as it were, and for the
time being all else is shut out. This is the experience
of anyone who passes that breach
between the Desire World and the World of
Thought, whether involuntarily, in the
course of an ordinary cyclic pilgrimage of
the soul, which we shall later elucidate when
speaking of the post-mortem existence, or by
an act of the will, as in the case of the trained
occult investigator, all have the same experience
in transition.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
There are two main divisions in the Physical
World: the Chemical Region and the
Etheric Region. The World of Thought also
has two great subdivisions: The Region of
concrete Thought and the Region of abstract
Thought.
</p>

<p>
As we specialize the material of the Physical
World and shape into a dense body, and as
we form the force-matter of the Desire
World into a desire body, so do we appropriate
a certain amount of mindstuff from the
Region of concrete Thought; but we, as spirits,
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
clothe ourselves in spirit-substance from
the Region of abstract Thought and thereby
we become individual, separate Egos.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Region of Concrete Thought.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Region of concrete Thought is neither
shadowy nor illusory. It is the acme of reality
and this world which we mistakenly regard
as the only verity, is but an evanescent
replica of that Region.
</p>

<p>
A little reflection will show the reasonableness
of this statement and prove our contention
that all we see here is really crystallized
thought. Our houses, our machinery, our
chairs and tables, all that has been made by
the hand of man is the embodiment of a
thought. As the juices in the soft body of
the snail gradually crystallize into the hard
and flinty shell which it carries upon its back
and which hides it, so everything used in our
civilization is a concretion of invisible, intangible
mind-stuff. The thought of James
Watt in time congealed into a steam engine
and revolutionized the world. Edison's
thought was condensed into an electric generator
which has turned night to day, and had
it not been for the thought of Morse and Marconi,
the telegraph would not have annihilated
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
distance as it does today. An earthquake
may wreck a city and demolish the
lighting plant and telegraph station, but the
thoughts of Watt, Edison and Morse remain,
and upon the basis of their indestructible
ideas new machinery may be constructed and
operations resumed. Thus thoughts are
more permanent than things.
</p>

<p>
The sensitive ear of the musician detects a
certain musical note in every city which is
different from that of another city. He hears
in each little brook a new melody, and to him
the sound of wind in the treetops of different
forests give a varying sound. In the Desire
World we noted the existence of forms similar
to the shapes of things here, also that
seemingly <emph>sound proceeds from form</emph>, but in
the Region of concrete Thought it is different,
for while each form occupies and obscures
a certain space here, form is nonexistent
when viewed from the standpoint of
the Region of concrete Thought. Where the
form was, a transparent, vacuous space is observable.
<emph>From that empty void comes a
sound</emph> which is the <q>keynote</q> that <emph>creates</emph> and
maintains the <emph>form</emph> whence it <emph>appears</emph> to
come, as the almost invisible core of a gas-flame
is the source of the light we perceive.
</p>

<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>

<p>
Sound from a vacuum cannot be heard in the
Physical World, but the harmony which proceeds
from the vacuous cavity of a celestial
<emph>archetype</emph> is <q>the voice of the silence,</q> and it
becomes audible when all earthly sounds
have ceased. Elijah heard it not while the
storm was raging; nor was it in evidence
during the turbulence of the earthquake, nor
in the crackling and roaring fire, but when
the destructive and inharmonious sounds of
this world had melted into silence, <q>the still
small voice</q> issued its commands to save
Elijah's life.
</p>

<p>
That <q>keynote</q> is a direct manifestation of
the Higher Self which uses it to impress and
govern the Personality it has created. But
alas, part of its life has been infused into the
material side of its being, which has thus obtained
a certain will of its own and only too
often are the two sides of our nature at war.
</p>

<p>
At last there comes a time when the spirit
is too weary to strive with the recalcitrant
flesh, when <q>the voice of the silence</q> ceases.
</p>

<p>
The earthly nourishment
we may seek to give, will not avail to sustain
a form when this harmonious sound, this
<q>word from heaven</q> no longer reverberates
through the empty void of the celestial archetype,
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
for <q>man lives not by bread alone,</q> but
by the WORD, and the last sound-vibration
of the <q>keynote</q> is the death-knell of the physical
body.
</p>

<p>
In this world we are compelled to investigate
and to study a thing before we know
about it, and although the facilities for gaining
information are in some respects much
greater in the Desire World, a certain
amount of investigation is necessary nevertheless
to acquire knowledge. In the World
of Thought, on the contrary, it is different.
When we wish to know about any certain
thing there, and we turn our attention thereto,
then that thing speaks to us, as it were.
The sound it emits at once gives us a most
luminous comprehension of every phase of
its nature. We attain to a realization of its
past history; the whole story of its unfoldment
is laid bare and we seem to have lived
through all of those experiences together
with the thing we are investigating.
</p>

<p>
Were it not for one enormous difficulty, the
story thus obtained would be exceedingly
valuable. But all this information, this life-picture,
flows in upon us with an enormous
rapidity in a moment, in the twinkling of an
eye, so that it has neither beginning nor end,
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
for, as said, in the World of Thought, all is
one great NOW, Time does not exist.
</p>

<p>
Therefore, when we want to use the archetypal
information in the Physical World, we
must disentangle and arrange it in chronological
order with beginning and ending before
it becomes intelligible to beings living in
a realm where Time is a prime factor. That
rearrangement is a most difficult task as all
words are coined with relation to the three
dimensions of space and the evanescent unit
of time, the fleeting moment, hence much of
that information remains unavailable.
</p>

<p>
Among the denizens of this Region of concrete
Thought we may note particularly two
classes. One is called the powers of darkness
by Paul and the mystic investigator of the
Western World knows them as Lords of
Mind. They were human at the time when
the earth was in a condition of darkness such
as worlds in the making go through before
they become luminous and reach the firemist-stage.
At that time we were in our mineral
evolution. That is to say: The Human Spirit
which has now awakened was encrusted in
the ball of mindstuff, which was then the
earth. At that time the present Human Spirits
were as much asleep as is the life which
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
ensouls our minerals of today, and as we are
working with the mineral chemical constituents
of the earth, molding them into houses,
railways, steam-boats, chairs, etc, etc., so
those beings, who are now Lords of Mind,
worked with us when we were mineral-like.
They have since advanced three steps,
through stages similar to that of the Angels
and Archangels, before they attained their
present position and became creative intelligences.
They are expert builders of mind
stuff, as we are builders of the present mineral
substances and therefore they have given
us necessary help to acquire a mind which is
the highest development of the human being.
</p>

<p>
According to the foregoing explanation it
seems to be an anomaly when Paul speaks of
them as evil and exhorts us to withstand
them. The difficulty disappears, however,
when we understand that good and evil are
but relative qualities. An illustration will
make the point clear:&mdash;Let us suppose that
an expert organ builder has constructed a
wonderful organ, a masterpiece. Then he has
followed his vocation in the proper manner,
and is therefore to be commended for the
good which he has done. But if he is not satisfied
to leave well enough alone, if he refuses
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
to give up his product to the musician who
understands how to play upon the instrument;
if he intrudes his presence into the
concert hall, he is out of place and to be censured
as evil. Similarly the Lords of Mind
did the greatest possible service to humanity
when they helped us to acquire our mind, but
many subtle thought influences come from
them, and are to be resisted, as Paul very
properly emphasizes.
</p>

<p>
The other class of beings which must be
mentioned are called Archetypal Forces by
the Western School of occultism. They direct
the energies of the creative Archetypes
native to this realm. They are a composite
class of beings of many different grades of intelligences,
and there is one stage in the cyclic
journey of the Human Spirit when that also
labors in, and is part of, that great host of
beings. For the Human Spirit is also destined
to become a great creative intelligence
at some future time, and if there were no
school wherein it could gradually learn to
create, it would not be able to advance, for
nothing in nature is done suddenly. An
acorn planted in the soil does not become a
majestic oak over night, but many years of
slow, persistent growth are required before
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
it attains to the stature of a giant of the
forest. A man does not become an Angel by
the mere fact of dying and entering a new
world any more than an animal advances to
be a man by the same process. But in time
all that lives, mounts the ladder of Being
from the clod to the God. There is no limitation
possible to the spirit, and so at various
stages in its unfoldment the Human Spirit
works with the other nature forces, according
to the stage of intelligence which it has
attained. It creates, changes and remodels
the earth upon which it is to live. Thus, under
the great law of cause and effect, which
we observe in every realm of nature, it reaps
upon earth what it has sown in heaven, and
vice versa. It grows slowly but persistently
and advances continually.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Region of Abstract Thought.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Various religious systems have been given
to humanity at different times, each suited to
meet the spiritual needs of the people among
whom it was promulgated, and, coming from
the same divine source:&mdash;God, all religions
exhibit similar fundamentals or first principles.
</p>

<p>
All systems teach that there was a time
when <emph>darkness</emph> reigned supreme. Everything
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
which we now perceive was then non-existent.
Earth, sky and the heavenly bodies
were uncreate, so were the multitudinous
forms which live and move upon the various
planets.&mdash;All, all, was yet in a fluidic condition
and the Universal Spirit brooded <emph>quiescent</emph>
in limitless Space as the One Existence.
</p>

<p>
The Greeks called that condition of homogeneity
<hi rend='italic'>Chaos</hi>, and the state of orderly segregation
which we now see; the marching orbs
which illumine the vaulted canopy of heaven,
the stately procession of planets around a
central light, the majestic sun; the unbroken
sequence of the seasons and the unvarying
alternation of tidal ebb and flow;&mdash;all this
aggregate of systematic order, was called
<hi rend='italic'>Cosmos</hi>, and was supposed to have proceeded
from Chaos.
</p>

<p>
The Christian Mystic obtains a deeper comprehension
when he opens his Bible and ponders
the first five verses of that brightest
gem of all spiritual lore: the Gospel of St.
John.
</p>

<p>
As he reverently opens his aspiring heart
to acquire understanding of those sublime
mystical teachings he transcends the form-side
of nature, comprising various realms of
which we have been speaking, and finds himself
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
<q>in the spirit,</q> as did the prophets in
olden times. He is then in the Region of abstract
Thought and sees the eternal verities
which also Paul beheld in this, the third,
heaven.
</p>

<p>
For those among us who are unable to obtain
knowledge save by reasoning upon the
matter, however, it will be necessary to examine
the fundamental meaning of words
used by St. John to clothe his wonderful
teaching, which was originally given in the
Greek language, a much simpler matter than
is commonly supposed, for Greek words have
been freely introduced into our modern languages,
particularly in scientific terms, and
we shall show how this ancient teaching is
supported by the latest discoveries of modern
science.
</p>

<p>
The opening verse of the gospel of St. John
is as follows: <q>In the <emph>beginning</emph> was the
<emph>Word</emph>, and the <emph>Word</emph> was with <emph>God</emph>, and the
<emph>Word</emph> was <emph>God</emph>.</q> We will examine the
words: <q>beginning,</q> <q>Word</q> and <q>God.</q> We
may also note that in the Greek version the
concluding sentence reads: <q>and God was the
Word,</q> a difference which makes a great
distinction.
</p>

<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>

<p>
It is an axiomatic truth that <q>out of nothing,
nothing comes,</q> and it has often been
asserted by scoffers that the Bible teaches
generation <q>from nothing.</q> We readily
agree that <emph>translations</emph> into the modern languages
promulgate this erroneous doctrine,
but we have shown in <hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Cosmo
Conception</hi> (chapter on <q>the Occult Analysis
of Genesis</q>), that the Hebrew text speaks of
an <emph>ever-existing essence</emph>, as the basis whence
all forms, the earth and the heavenly lights
included, were first created, and John also
gives the same teaching.
</p>

<p>
The Greek word <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>arche</foreign>, in the opening sentence
of the gospel of St. John has been
translated <hi rend='italic'>the beginning</hi>, and it may be said
to have that meaning, but it also has other
valid interpretations, vastly more significant
of the idea John wished to convey. It means:&mdash;an
elementary condition,&mdash;a chief source,&mdash;a
first principle,&mdash;primordial matter.
</p>

<p>
There was a time when science insisted that
the elements were immutable, that is to say,
that an atom of iron had been an atom of iron
since the earth was formed and would so remain
to the end of time. The Alchemists
were sneered at as fanciful dreamers or madmen,
but since Professor J. J. Thomson's discovery
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
of the electron, the atomic theory of
matter, is no longer tenable. The principle
of radio-activity has later vindicated the Alchemists.
Science and the Bible agree in
teaching, that all that is, has been formed
from one homogeneous substance.
</p>

<p>
It is that basic principle which John called
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>arche</foreign>:&mdash;primordial
matter,&mdash;and the dictionary
defines Archeology as: <q>the science of
the origin (<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>arche</foreign>) of things.</q> Masons style
God the <q>Grand Architect,</q> for the Greek
word tektos means builder, and God is the
Chief Builder (<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>tektos</foreign>)
of <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>arche</foreign>: the primordial
virgin matter which is also the chief
source of all things.
</p>

<p>
Thus we see that when the opening sentence
of St. John's gospel is properly translated,
our Christian Religion teaches that
once a virgin substance enfolded the divine
Thinker:&mdash;God.
</p>

<p>
That is the identical condition which the
earlier Greeks called Chaos. A little thought
will make it evident that we are not arbitrary
in finding fault with the translation of the
gospel, for it is self-evident that a word cannot
be the beginning, a thought must precede
the word, and a thinker must originate
thought before it can be expressed as a word.
</p>

<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>

<p>
When properly translated the teaching of
John fully embodies that idea, for the Greek
term <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>logos</foreign> means both the reasonable
thought,&mdash;(we also say Logic),&mdash;and the
word which expresses this (logical) thought.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
1) <hi rend='italic'>In the primordial substance was thought,
and the thought was with God
And God was the word</hi>,
</p>

<p>
2) <hi rend='smallcaps'>that</hi>, [The Word], <hi rend='italic'>also was with God in
the primal state</hi>.
</p>
</quote>

<p>
Later the divine WORD; the Creative Fiat,
reverberates through space and segregates
the homogeneous virgin substance into separate
forms.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
3) <hi rend='italic'>Every thing has come into existence because
of that prime fact</hi>, [The Word of
God], <hi rend='italic'>and no thing exists apart from that
fact.</hi>
</p>

<p>
4) <hi rend='italic'>In that was Life.</hi>
</p>
</quote>

<p>
In the alphabet we have a few elementary
sounds from which words may be constructed.
They are basic elements of expression,
as bricks, iron and lumber are raw materials
of architecture, or as a few notes are component
parts of music.
</p>

<p>
But a heap of bricks, iron and lumber, is
not a house, neither is a jumbled mass of
notes music, nor can we call a haphazard arrangement
of alphabetical sounds a word.
</p>

<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>

<p>
These raw materials are prime necessities in
construction of architecture, music, literature
or poetry, but the contour of the finished product
and the purpose it will serve depends
upon the arrangement of the raw materials,
which is subject to the constructor's design.
Building materials may be formed to prison
or palace; notes may be arranged as fanfare
or funeral dirge; words may be indited to inspire
passion or peace, all according to the
will of the designer. So also the majestic
rhythm of the Word of God has wrought the
primal substance: <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>arche</foreign>, into the multitudinous
forms which comprise the phenomenal
world, according to His will.
</p>

<p>
Did the reader ever stop to consider the
wonderful power of a human word. Coming
to us in the sweet accents of love, it may lure
us from paths of rectitude to shameful ignominy
and wreck our life with sorrow and remorse,
or it may spur us on in noblest efforts
to acquire glory and honor, here or hereafter.
According to the inflection of the voice a
word may strike terror into the bravest heart
or lull a timid child to peaceful slumber. The
word of an agitator may rouse the passions
of a mob and impel it to awful bloodshed, as
in the French Revolution, where dictatorial
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
mandates of mob-rule killed and exiled at
pleasure, or, the strain of <q>Home, Sweet
Home</q> may cement the setting of a family-circle
beyond possibility of rupture.
</p>

<p>
Right words are true and therefore free,
they are never bound or fettered by time or
space, they go to the farthest corners of the
earth, and when the lips that spoke them first
have long since mouldered in the grave, other
voices take up with unwearying enthusiasm
their message of life and love, as for instance
the mystical <q>Come unto me</q> which has
sounded from unnumbered tongues and
brought oceans of balm to troubled hearts.
</p>

<p>
Words of Peace have been victorious,
where war would have meant defeat, and no
talent is more to be desired than ability to
always say the right word at the auspicious
time.
</p>

<p>
Considering thus the immense power and
potency of the human word, we may perhaps
dimly apprehend the potential magnitude of
the Word of God, the Creative Fiat, when as
a mighty dynamic force it first reverberated
through space and commenced to form primordial
matter into worlds, as sound from a
violin bow moulds sand into geometrical figures.
Moreover, <emph>the Word of God still sounds</emph>
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
to sustain the marching orbs and impel them
onwards in their circle paths, the Creative
Word continues to produce forms of gradually
increasing efficiency, as media expressing
life and consciousness. The harmonious
enunciation of consecutive syllables in the
Divine Creative Word mark successive stages
in evolution of the world and man. When the
last syllable has been spoken and the complete
word has sounded, we shall have reached
perfection as human beings. Then Time will
be at an end, and with the last vibration of
the Word of God, the worlds will be resolved
into their original elements. Our life will
then be <q>hid with Christ in God,</q> till the Cosmic
Night:&mdash;Chaos,&mdash;is over, and we wake to
do <q>greater things</q> in a <q>new heaven and a
new earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
According to the general idea Chaos and
Cosmos are superlative antitheses of each
other. Chaos being regarded as a past condition
of confusion and disorder which has long
since been entirely superseded by cosmic order
which now prevails.
</p>

<p>
As a matter of fact, Chaos is the seed-ground
of Cosmos, the basis of all progress,
for thence come all IDEAS which later materialize
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
as Railways, Steamboats, Telephones,
etc.
</p>

<p>
We speak of <q>thoughts as being conceived
by the mind,</q> but as both father and mother
are necessary in the generation of a child, so
also there must be both <emph>idea</emph> and <emph>mind</emph> before
a <emph>thought</emph> can be conceived. As semen germinated
in the positive male organ is projected
into the negative uterus at conception, so
ideas are generated by a positive Human Ego
in the spirit-substance of the Region of abstract
Thought. This idea is projected upon
the receptive mind, and a conception takes
place. Then, as the spermatozoic nucleus
draws upon the maternal body for material
to shape a body appropriate to its individual
expression, so does each idea clothe itself in
a peculiar form of mindstuff. It is then a
thought, as visible to the inner vision of composite
man, as a child is to its parent.
</p>

<p>
Thus we see that ideas are embryonic
thoughts, nuclei of spirit-substance from the
Region of abstract Thought. Improperly
conceived in a diseased mind they become vagaries
and delusions, but when gestated in a
sound mind and formed into rational thoughts
they are the basis of all material, moral and
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
mental progress, and the closer our touch
with Chaos, the better will be our Cosmos,
for in that realm of abstract realities truth is
not obscured by matter, it is self-evident.
</p>

<p>
Pilate was asked <q>what is Truth,</q> but no
answer is recorded. We are incapable of
cognizing truth in the abstract while we live
in the phenomenal world, for the inherent nature
of matter is illusion and delusion, and
we are constantly making allowances and corrections
whether we are conscious of the fact
or not. The sunbeam which proceeds for 90
millions of miles in a straight line, is refracted
or bent as soon as it strikes our dense atmosphere,
and according to the angle of its
refraction, it <emph>appears</emph> to have one color or another.
The straightest stick appears crooked
when partly immersed in water, and the
truths which are so self-evident in the Higher
worlds are likewise obscured, refracted or
twisted out of all semblance under the illusory
conditions of this material world.
</p>

<p>
<q>The truth shall set you free,</q> said Christ,
and the more we turn our aspirations from
material acquisitiveness and seek to lay up
treasure above, the more we aim to rise, the
oftener we <q>get in the spirit,</q> the more readily
we <q>shall know truth</q> and reach liberation
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
from the fetter of flesh which binds us to
a limited environment, and attain to a sphere
of greater usefulness.
</p>

<p>
Study of philosophy and science has a tendency
to further perception of truth, and as
science has progressed it has gradually receded
from its erstwhile crude materialism.
The day is not far off when it will be more
reverently religious than the church itself.
Mathematics is said to be <q>dry,</q> for it
doesn't stir the emotions. When it is taught
that <q>the sum of the angles of a triangle is
180 degrees,</q> the dictum is at once accepted,
because its truth is self-evident and no feeling
is involved in the matter. But when a doctrine
such as the Immaculate Conception is
promulgated and our emotions are stirred,
bloody war, or heated argument, may result,
and still leave the matter in doubt. Pythagoras
demanded that his pupils study mathematics,
because he knew the elevating effect of
raising their minds above the sphere of feeling,
where it is subject to delusion, and elevating
it towards the Region of abstract
Thought which is the prime reality.
</p>

<p>
In this place we are dealing with worlds in
particular, and will therefore defer comment
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
upon the remainder of the first 5 verses of St.
John's gospel:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'><hi rend='italic'>And Life became Light in man,</hi></q></l>
<l>5)<q rend='post'> <hi rend='italic'>and Light shines in Darkness.</hi></q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
We have now seen that the earth is composed
of three worlds which interpenetrate
one another so that it is perfectly true when
Christ said that <q>heaven is within you</q> or,
the translation should rather have been
<emph>among you</emph>. We have also seen that of these
three realms two are subdivided. It has also
been explained that each division serves a
great purpose in the unfoldment of various
forms of life which dwell in each of these
worlds, and we may note in conclusion, that
the lower regions of the Desire World constitute
what the Catholic religion calls <hi rend='italic'>Purgatory</hi>,
a place where the evil of a past life is
transmuted to good, usable by the spirit as
conscience in later lives. The higher regions
of the Desire World are the <emph>first Heaven</emph>
where all the good a man has done is assimilated
by the spirit as <emph>soul</emph> power. The Region
of concrete Thought is the <emph>second Heaven</emph>,
where, as already said, the spirit prepares
its future environment on earth, and the Region
of abstract Thought is the <emph>third Heaven</emph>,
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
but as Paul said, it is scarcely lawful to
speak about that.
</p>

<p>
Some will ask: is there then no hell?&mdash;No!
<emph>The mercy of God</emph> tends as greatly towards
the principle of GOOD as <q><emph>the inhumanity
of man</emph></q> towards cruelty, so that he would
consign his brother men to flames of hell during
eternity for the puerile mistakes committed
during a few years, or perhaps for a
slight difference in belief. The writer has
heard of a minister who wished to impress
his <q>flock</q> with the reality of an eternity of
hell flames, and to demonstrate the fallacy of
a heretical notion entertained by some of his
parishioners that when sinners come to hell
they burn to ashes and that is the end.
</p>

<p>
He took with him an alcohol lamp and
some asbestos into the pulpit and told his
audience that God would turn their souls
into a substance resembling asbestos. He
showed them that though the asbestos were
heated red hot it did not decompose into
ashes. Fortunately the day of the hell
preacher has gone by, and if we believe the
Bible which says that <q>in God we live and
move and have our being,</q> we can readily
understand that <emph>a lost soul would be an impossibility</emph>,
for were one single soul lost, then
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
logically a part of God Himself would be
lost. No matter what our color, our race or
our creed, we are all equally the children of
God and in our various ways we shall obtain
satisfaction. Let us therefore rather look
to Christ and forget Creed.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Creed or Christ?</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>No man loves God who hates his kind,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Who tramples on his Brother's heart and soul.</l>
<l>Who seeks to shackle, cloud or fog the mind</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By fears of Hell has not perceived our goal.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>God-sent are all religions blest;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And Christ, the Way, the Truth and Life,</l>
<l>To give the heavy-laden rest,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And peace from Sorrow, Sin and Strife.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>At his request the Universal Spirit came</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><emph>To all the churches</emph>, not to one alone.</l>
<l>On Pentecostal morn a tongue of flame</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Round <emph>each</emph> apostle as a halo shone.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Since then, as vultures ravenous with greed,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We oft have battled for an empty name,</l>
<l>And sought by Dogma, Edict, Creed,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To send each other to the flame.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>

<lg>
<l>Is Christ then divided? Was Cephas or Paul</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Nailed to the deathly tree?</l>
<l>If not&mdash;then why these divisions at all?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Christ's love doth embrace you and me.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>His pure sweet love is not confined</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By creeds which segregate and raise a wall;</l>
<l>His love enfolds, embraces <emph>Humankind</emph></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>No matter what ourselves or Him we call.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Then why not take Him at His word?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Why hold to creeds which tear apart?</l>
<l>But one thing matters, be it heard,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That brother-love fill every heart.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>There is but one thing that the world has need to know;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>There is but one balm for all our human woe</l>
<l>There is but one way that leads to heaven above;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That way is human sympathy and love.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter IV. The Constitution of Man</head>

<p>
Our chapter head, <q>the constitution
of man,</q> may surprise a reader who
has not previously studied the Mystery
teachings, or he may imagine that
we intend to give an anatomical dissertation,
but such is not our intention. We have spoken
of the earth upon which we live as being
composed of several invisible realms in addition
to the world we perceive by means of
our senses. We have also spoken of man as
being correlated to these various divisions in
nature, and a little thought upon the subject
will quickly convince us that in order to
function upon the various planes of existence
described, it is necessary that a man
should have a body composed of their substance,
or at least have specialized for his
own use, some of the material of each of
these worlds.
</p>

<p>
We have said that finer matter, called desire
stuff and mind stuff, permeates our atmosphere
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
and the solid earth, even as blood
percolates through all parts of our flesh.
But that is not a sufficient explanation to account
for all facts of life. If that were all,
then minerals, which are interpenetrated by
the world of thought and the world of desire,
would have thoughts and desires as well as
man. This is not the case, so something
more than mere interpenetration must be requisite
to acquire the faculties of thought
and feeling.
</p>

<p>
We know that in order to function in this
world, to live as a physical being among other
like beings, we must have a physical body
all our own, built of the chemical constituents
of this visible world. When we lose it
at death, it profits us nothing that the world
is full of just the very chemicals needed to
build such a body. We cannot then specialize
them, and therefore we are invisible to
all others. Similarly, if we did not possess
a special body made of ether, we should be
unable to grow and to propagate. That is
the case with the mineral. Had we no separate
individual desire body, we should be
unable to feel desires and emotions, there
would be no incentive to move from one
place to another. We should then be stationary
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
as plants, and did we not possess a mind,
we should be incapable of thought, and act
upon impulse and instinct as animals.
</p>

<p>
Some one may of course object to this last
statement, and contend that animals do
think. So far as our domesticated animals
are concerned that is partially true, but it
is not quite in the same way that we think
and reason. The difference may perhaps
best be understood if we take an illustration
from the electrical field. When an electric
current <emph>of high voltage</emph> is passed through a
coiled copper wire, and another wire is placed
in the center of the coils, that wire will
become charged with electricity <emph>of a lower
voltage</emph>. So also the animal, when brought
within the sphere of human thoughts, evolves
a mental activity of a lower order.
</p>

<p>
Paul, in his writings, also mentions <emph>the
natural body</emph> and the <emph>spiritual body</emph> while the
man himself is a spirit inhabiting those vehicles.
We will briefly note the constitution
of the various bodies of man invisible to the
physical sight but as objective to spiritual
sight as the dense body to ordinary vision.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Vital Body.</hi>
</p>

<p>
That body of ours which is composed of
ether is called the <q><emph>vital body</emph></q> in Western
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
Mystery Schools, for, as we have already
seen, ether is the avenue of ingress for vital
force from the sun and the field of agencies
in nature which promote such vital activities
as assimilation, growth and propagation.
</p>

<p>
This vehicle is an exact counterpart of our
visible body, molecule for molecule, and organ
for organ, with one exception, which we
shall note later. But it is slightly larger, extending
about one and one-half inches beyond
the periphery of our dense vehicle.
</p>

<p>
The spleen is the entrance gate of forces
which vitalize the body. In the etheric
counterpart of that organ solar energy is
transmuted to vital fluid of a pale rose color.
From thence it spreads all over the nervous
system, and after having been used in the
body it radiates in streams, much as bristles
protrude from a porcupine.
</p>

<p>
The rays of the sun are transmitted either
directly, or reflected by way of the planets
and the moon. The rays directly from the
sun give spiritual illumination, the rays
received by way of the planets produce intelligence,
morality, and soul growth, but the
rays reflected by way of the moon make for
physical growth, as seen in the case of plants
which grow differently when planted in the
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
light of the moon from what is the case when
they are planted when the moon is dark.
There is also a difference in plants sown
when the moon is in barren and fruitful signs
of the Zodiac.
</p>

<p>
The solar ray is absorbed by the human
spirit which has its seat in the center of the
forehead, the stellar ray is absorbed by the
brain and spinal cord, and the lunar ray enters
our system through the spleen.
</p>

<p>
The solar, stellar and lunar rays are
three-colored, and in the lunar ray which
supplies our vital force, the blue beam is the
life of The Father, which causes germination,
the yellow beam is the life of The Son, which
is the active principle in nutrition and
growth, and the red beam is the life of the
Holy Spirit, which stimulates to action, dissipating
the energy stored by the yellow force.
This principle is particularly active in generation.
</p>

<p>
The various kingdoms absorb this life-force
differently, according to their constitution.
Animals have only 28 pairs of spinal
nerves. They are keyed to the lunar month
of 28 days and therefore dependent upon a
Groupspirit for an infusion of stellar rays
necessary to produce consciousness. They
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
are altogether incapable of absorbing the
direct ray of the sun.
</p>

<p>
Man is in a transition stage, he has 31 pairs
of spinal nerves which keys him to the solar
month, but the nerves in the so-called cauda-equina&mdash;literally
horse-tail&mdash;, at the end of
our spinal cord, are still too undeveloped to
act as avenues for the spiritual ray of the
sun. In proportion as we draw our creative
force upward by spiritual thought we develop
these nerves and awaken dormant faculties of
the spirit. But it is dangerous to attempt
that development except under guidance of
a qualified teacher, and the reader is earnestly
warned not to use any method published
in books, or sold, for their practice usually
leads to dementia. The safe method is never
sold for money or any earthly consideration
however large or small; it is always freely
given as a reward of merit. <q>Ask and ye
shall receive, seek and ye shall find, knock
and it shall be opened</q>, said the Christ. If
our life is a prayer for illumination, the
search will not be uncertain, nor the knock
without response.
</p>

<p>
When solar energy has been transmuted
in the spleen it traverses the whole nervous
system of the body glowing with a most
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
beautiful color of a delicate rosy hue. It
answers the same purpose as electricity in a
telegraph system. We may string wires between
cities, erect telegraph stations, install
receivers and transmitters. We may even
have operators ready at the keys, but until
electric fluid is turned into our wires, the
telegraph keys will refuse to click. So also
in the body, the human spirit is operator, and
from the central station of the brain, nerves
ramify, go through the whole body to all the
different muscles. When this vitalizing fluid
of which we are speaking traverses the nervous
system, the Ego may send his commands
to the muscles and cause them to move but if
the vital fluid for any reason does not flow
into a certain part of the body such as an
arm or a limb, then the spirit is powerless
to move that part of the body and we say that
it is paralyzed.
</p>

<p>
When we are in health, we specialize solar
energy in such great quantities that we cannot
use it all in the body and therefore it
radiates through the pores of our skin in
straight streams and serves a similar purpose
as an exhaust fan. That machine drives
the foul air out of a room or building and
keeps the atmosphere within pure and sweet.
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
The excessive vital force which radiates from
the body drives out poisonous gases, deleterious
microbes and effete matter thus tending
to preserve a healthy condition. It also prevents
armies of disease germs, which swarm
about in the atmosphere, from entering;
upon the same principle that a fly cannot
wing its way into a building through the
exhaust fan. Thus it serves a most beneficent
purpose even after it has been utilized
in our body and is returning to the free state.
</p>

<p>
It is a curious and most astounding sight
when one first observes how, from exposed
parts of the body such as hands and face,
there suddenly commences to flow a stream
of stars, cubes, pyramids and a variety of
other geometrical forms. The writer has
more than once rubbed his eyes when he first
perceived the phenomenon, for it seemed that
he must be suffering from hallucinations.
The forms observed are chemical atoms
however, which have served their purpose in
the body and are expelled through the pores.
</p>

<p>
When one has eaten a meal, vital fluid is
consumed by the body in great quantities,
for it is the cement whereby nature's forces
build our food into the body. Therefore the
radiations are weakest during the period of
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
digestion. If the meal has been heavy, the
outflow is very perceptibly diminished, and
does not then cleanse our body as thoroughly
as when the food has been digested, nor is
it as potent in keeping out inimical germs.
Therefore one is most liable to catch cold
or other disease by overeating, a fault which
should be avoided by all who wish to keep
in good health.
</p>

<p>
During ill health the vital body specializes
but little solar energy. Then, for a time,
the visible body seems to feed upon the vital
body as it were, so that the vehicle becomes
more transparent and attenuated at the same
rate as the visible body exhibits a state of
emaciation. The cleansing odic radiations
are almost entirely absent during sickness,
therefore complications set in so easily.
</p>

<p>
Though science has not directly observed
this vital body of man, it has upon several
occasions postulated the existence of such a
vehicle as necessary to account for facts in
life and the radiations have been observed
by a number of scientists at different times
and under varying conditions. Blondlot and
Charpentier have called them N-rays after
the city of Nantes where the radiations were
observed by these scientists, others have
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
named them <q>The Odic fluid</q>. Scientific
investigators who have conducted researches
into psychic phenomena have even photographed
it when it has been extracted
through the spleen by materializing spirits.
Dr. Hotz for instance obtained two photographs
of a materialization through the
German medium, Minna-Demmler. On one a
cloud of ether is seen oozing out through the
left side of the medium, shapeless and without
form. The second picture, taken a few
moments later, shows the materialized spirit
standing at the medium's side. Other photographs
obtained by scientists from the
Italian medium Eusapio Palladino show a
luminous cloud over-hanging her left side.
</p>

<p>
We said in the beginning of this description
that the vital body is an exact counterpart
of the dense body with one exception: it
is of the opposite sex or perhaps we should
rather say polarity. As the vital body nourishes
the dense vehicle, we may readily understand
that blood is its highest visible expression,
and also that a positively polarized
vital body would generate more blood than a
negative one. Woman who is physically negative
has a positive vital body, hence she generates
a surplus of blood which is relieved by
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
the periodical flow. She is also more prone
to tears, which are white bleeding, than man,
whose negative vital body does not generate
more blood than he can comfortably take care
of. Therefore it is not necessary for him to
have the outlets which relieve excess of blood
in woman.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Desire Body.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In addition to the visible body and the
vital body we also have a body made of desire
stuff from which we form our feelings
and emotions. This vehicle also impels us to
seek sense gratification. But while the two
instruments of which we have already spoken,
are well organized, the desire body appears
to spiritual sight as an ovoid cloud
extending from sixteen to twenty inches beyond
the physical body. It is above the
head and below the feet so that our dense
body sits in the center of this egg-shaped
cloud as the yolk is in the center of an egg.
</p>

<p>
The reason for the rudimentary state of
this vehicle is, that it has been added to the
human constitution more recently than the
bodies previously mentioned. Evolution of
form may be likened to the manner in which
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
the juices in the snail first condense into flesh
and later become a hard shell. When our
present visible body first germinated in the
spirit, it was a thought-form, but gradually
it has become denser and more concrete until
it is now a chemical crystallization. The
vital body was next emanated by the spirit
as a thought-form and is in the third stage of
concretion which is etheric. The desire body
is a still later acquisition. That also was a
thought form at its inception, but has now
condensed to desire stuff, and the mind,
which we have only recently received, is still
but a mere cloudy thought form.
</p>

<p>
Arms and limbs, ears and eyes are not
necessary to use the desire body, for it can
glide through space more swiftly than wind
without such means of locomotion as we require
in this visible world.
</p>

<p>
When viewed by spiritual sight, it appears
that there are in this desire body a number
of whirling vortices. We have already
explained that it is a characteristic of desire
stuff to be in constant motion, and from the
main vortex in the region of the liver there
is a constant outwelling flow which radiates
towards the periphery of this egg-shaped
body and returns to the center through a
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
number of other vortices. The desire body
exhibits all the colors and shades which we
know and a vast number of others which are
indescribable in earthly language. Those
colors vary in every person according to his
characteristics and temperament and they
also vary from moment to moment as passing
moods, fancies or emotions are experienced
by him. There is however in each
one a certain basic color dependent upon
the ruling star at the moment of his birth.
The man in whose horoscope Mars is peculiarly
strong usually has a crimson tint in
his aura, where Jupiter is the strongest
planet the prevailing tint seems to be a bluish
tone, and so on with the other planets.
</p>

<p>
There was a time in the earth's past history
when incrustation was not yet complete,
and human beings of that time lived upon
islands here and there, amid boiling seas.
They had not yet evolved eyes or ears, but
a little organ: the pineal gland, which anatomists
have called <hi rend='italic'>the third eye</hi>, protruded
through the back of the head and was a <emph>localised
organ of feeling</emph>, which warned the man
when he came too near a volcanic crater and
thus enabled him to escape destruction. Since
then the cerebral hemispheres have covered
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
the pineal gland, and instead of a single organ
of feeling, the whole body inside and out
is sensitive to impacts, which of course is
a much higher state of development.
</p>

<p>
In the desire body every particle is sensitive
to vibrations similar to those which we
call sight, sounds and feelings and every particle
is in incessant motion rapidly swirling
about so that in the same instant it may be at
the top and bottom of the desire body and impart
at all points to all the other particles a
sensation of that which it has experienced
thus every particle of desire stuff in this
vehicle of ours will instantly feel any sensation
experienced by any single particle.
Therefore the desire body is of an exceedingly
sensitive nature, capable of most intense
feelings and emotions.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Mind.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This is the latest acquisition of the human
spirit, and in most people who have not yet
accustomed themselves to orderly, consecutive
thought, it is a mere inchoate cloud disposed
particularly in the region of the head.
When looking at a person clairvoyantly there
appears to be an empty space in the center
of the forehead just above and between the
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
eyebrows. It looks like the blue part of a gas
flame. That is mind stuff which veils the human
spirit, or Ego, and the writer has been
told that not even the most gifted seer can
penetrate that veil which is said to have been
spoken of in ancient Egypt as <q><hi rend='italic'>the veil of
Isis</hi></q> which none may lift and live, for behind
that veil is the Holy of Holies, the temple
of our body, where the spirit is to be left
secure from all intrusion.
</p>

<p>
To those who have not previously studied
the deeper philosophies the question may occur:
But why all these divisions; even the
Bible speaks only of soul and body, for most
people believe soul and spirit to be synonymous
terms. We can only answer that this
division is not arbitrary but necessary, and
founded upon facts in nature. Neither is it
correct to regard the soul and the spirit as
synonymous. Paul himself speaks of <hi rend='italic'>the
natural body</hi> which is composed of physical
substances: solids, liquids, gases and ethers;
he mentions <hi rend='italic'>a spiritual body</hi>, which is the
vehicle of the spirit composed of the mind and
desire body, and <hi rend='italic'>the spirit itself</hi>, which is
called Ego in Latin or <q>I</q> in English.
</p>

<p>
That term <q>I</q> is an appelation which can
only be made by the human spirit of itself.
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
We may all call a dog, dog; or we may call
a table, table, and any one else may apply
the same name to the dog and to the table,
but only a human being can be called <q>I</q>
and only he himself can apply that most exclusive
of all words, I, for this is the badge
of self-consciousness, the recognition by the
human spirit of <emph>itself</emph> as an entity, separate
and apart from all others.
</p>

<p>
Thus we see that the constitution of man
is more complex than appears upon the surface,
and we will now proceed to note the
effect upon this multiplex being of various
conditions of life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter V. Life and Death</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Invisible Helpers and Mediums.</hi>
</p>

<p>
There are two classes of people in the
world. In one class the vital and dense
bodies are so firmly cemented that the ethers
cannot be extracted under any circumstances
but remain with the dense body at all times
and under all conditions from birth to death.
Those people are insensible to any supersensuous
sights or sounds. They are therefore
usually exceedingly sceptic, and believe nothing
exists but what <emph>they</emph> can see.
</p>

<p>
There is another class of people in whom
the connection between the dense and the
vital bodies is more or less loose, so that
the ether of their vital bodies vibrates at a
higher rate than in the first class mentioned.
These people are therefore more or less sensitive
to the spiritual world.
</p>

<p>
This class of sensitives may again be divided.
Some are weak characters, dominated
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
by the will of others in a <emph>negative</emph> manner,
as mediums, who are the prey of disembodied
spirits desirous of obtaining a physical body
when they have lost their own by death.
</p>

<p>
The other class of sensitives are strong
<emph>positive</emph> characters, who act only from within,
according to their own will. They may
develop into trained clairvoyants, and be
their own masters instead of slaves of a disembodied
spirit. In some sensitives of both
classes it is possible to extract part of the
ether which forms the vital body. When a
disembodied spirit obtains a subject of that
nature, it develops the sensitive as <emph>a materializing
medium</emph>. The man who is capable
of extracting his own vital body by an act
of will, becomes a citizen of two worlds, independent
and free. Such are usually known
as <hi rend='italic'>Invisible Helpers</hi>. There are certain other
abnormal conditions where the vital body and
the dense body are separated totally or in
part, for instance if we place our limb in an
uncomfortable position so that circulation of
the blood ceases. Then we may see the etheric
limb hanging down below the visible limb as
a stocking. When we restore circulation and
the etheric limb seeks to enter into place, an
intense prickly sensation is felt, due to the
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
fact that the little streams of force, which
radiate all through the ether, seek to permeate
the molecules of the limb and stir them
into renewed vibration. When a person is
drowning, the vital body also separates from
the dense vehicle and the intense prickly pain
incident to resuscitation is also due to the
cause mentioned.
</p>

<p>
While we are awake and going about our
work in the Physical World, the desire body
and mind both permeate the dense and the
vital bodies, and there is a constant war between
the desire nature and the vital body.
The vital body is continually engaged in building
up the human organism, while the impulses
of the desire body tend to tire and to break
down tissue. Gradually, in the course of the
day, the vital body loses ground before the
onslaughts of the desire body, poisons of decay
slowly accumulate and the flow of vital
fluid becomes more and more sluggish, until
at length it is incapable of moving the muscles.
The body then feels heavy and drowsy.
At last the vital body collapses, as it were,
the little streams of force which permeate
each atom seem to shrivel up, and the Ego
is forced to abandon its body to the restorative
powers of sleep.
</p>

<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>

<p>
When a building has become dilapidated
and is to be <emph>restored</emph> and put in thorough repair,
the tenants must move out to let the
workmen have a free field. So also when the
building of a spirit has become unfit for further
use, it must withdraw therefrom. As
the desire body caused the damage, it is a
logical conclusion that that also must be removed.
Every night when our body has become
tired, the higher vehicles are withdrawn,
only the dense and vital bodies are
left upon the bed.
</p>

<p>
Then the process of restoration commences
and lasts for a longer or a shorter time according
to circumstances.
</p>

<p>
At times however, the grip of the desire
body upon our denser vehicles is so strong
that it refuses to let go. When it has become
so interested in the proceedings of the
day, it continues to ruminate over them after
the collapse of the physical body, and is perhaps
only half extracted from that vehicle.
Then it may transmit sights and sounds of
the desire world to the brain. But as the
connections are necessarily askew under such
conditions, the most confused dreams result.
Furthermore, as the desire body compels motion,
the body is very apt to toss about when
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
the desire body is not fully extracted, hence
the restless sleep which usually accompanies
dreams of a confused nature.
</p>

<p>
There are times of course when dreams
are prophetic and come true, but such dreams
result only <emph>after</emph> complete extraction of the
desire body, under circumstances where the
spirit has seen some danger perhaps, which
may befall, and then impresses the fact upon
the brain <emph>at the moment of awakening</emph>.
</p>

<p>
It also happens that the spirit goes upon a
soul flight and omits to perform its part of
the work of restoration, then the body will
not be fit to re-enter in the morning, so it
sleeps on. The spirit may thus roam afield
for a number of days, or even weeks, before
it again enters its physical body and assumes
the normal routine of alternating waking and
sleep. This condition is called <hi rend='italic'>trance</hi>, and
the spirit may remember upon its return
what it has seen and heard in the super-physical
realm, or it may have forgotten, according
to the stage of its development and the
depth of the trance condition. When the
trance is very light, the spirit is usually
present in the room where its body lies all
the time, and upon its return to the body it
will be able to recount to relatives all they
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
said and did while its body lay unconscious.
Where the trance is deeper, the returning
spirit will usually be unconscious of what
happened around its body, but may recount
experiences from the invisible world.
</p>

<p>
A few years ago a little girl by the name
of Florence Bennett in Kankakee, Illinois,
fell into such a trance. She returned to the
body every few days, but stayed within only
a few hours each time, and the whole trance
lasted three weeks, more or less. During the
returns to her body she told relatives that
in her absence she seemed to be in a place
inhabited by all the people who died. But
she stated that none of them spoke about dying
and no one among them seemed to realize
that they were dead. Among those she had
seen was a locomotive engineer who had been
accidentally killed. His body was mangled
in the accident which caused death. The little
girl perceived him there walking about
minus arms, and with lesions upon his head,
all of which is in line with facts usually seen
by mystic investigators. Persons who have
been hurt in accidents go about thus, until
they learn that a mere wish to have their
body made whole will supply a new arm or
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
limb, for desire stuff is most quickly and
readily molded by thought.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Death.</hi>
</p>

<p>
After a longer or shorter time there comes
in each life a point where the experiences
which a spirit can gain from its present environment
have been exhausted, and life
terminates in death.
</p>

<p>
Death may be sudden and seemingly unexpected,
as for instance by earthquake, upon
the battle-field, or by accident, as we call it,
but in reality, death is never accidental or
unforeseen by Higher Powers. Not a sparrow
falls to the ground without divine Will.
There are along life's path partings of the
way, as it were; on one side the main line
of life continues onward, the other path leads
into what we might call a blind alley. If the
man takes that path, it soon ends in death.
We are here in life for the sake of gaining
experience and each life has a certain harvest
to reap. If we order our life in such a manner
that we gain the knowledge it is intended
we should acquire, we continue in life, and
opportunities of different kinds constantly
come our way. But if we neglect them, and
the life goes into paths which are not congruous
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
to our individual development it
would be a waste of time to let us stay in
such environment. Therefore the Great and
Wise Beings, Who are behind the scene of
evolution, terminate our life, that we may
have a fresh start in a different sphere of influence.
The law of conservation of energy
is not confined to the Physical World, but
operates in the spiritual realms also. There
is nothing in life that has not its purpose.
We do wrong to rail against circumstances,
no matter how disagreeable, we should rather
endeavor to learn the lessons which are contained
therein, that we may live a long and
useful life. Some one may object, and say:
You are inconsistent in your teachings. You
say there is really no death, that we go into
a brighter existence, and that we have to
learn other lessons there in a different
sphere of usefulness! Why then aim to live
a long life here?
</p>

<p>
It is very true that we make these claims,
and they are perfectly consistent with the
other assertions just mentioned, but there
are lessons to be learned <emph>here</emph> which cannot
be learned in the other worlds, and we have
to bring up this physical body through the
useless years of childhood, through hot and
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
impulsive youth, to the ripeness of manhood
or womanhood, before it becomes of true
spiritual use. The longer we live after maturity
has been attained, when we have commenced
to look upon the serious side of life
and started to truly learn lessons which make
for soulgrowth, the more experience we shall
gather and the richer our harvest will be.
Then, in a later existence, we shall be so much
more advanced, and capable of taking up
tasks that would be impossible with less
length of life and breadth of activity. Besides,
it is hard to die for the man in the
prime of life with a wife and growing family
whom he loves; with ambitions of greatness
unfulfilled; with hosts of friends about him,
and with interests all centered upon the material
plane of existence. It is sad for the
woman whose heart is bound up in home and
the little ones she has reared, to leave them,
perhaps without anyone to care for them; to
know that they have to fight their way alone
through the early years when her tender care
is needed, and perhaps to see those little ones
abused, and she unable to lift a hand, though
her heart may bleed as freely as it would in
earth life. All these things are sad, and
<emph>they bind the spirit to earth</emph> for a much longer
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
time than ordinarily, they hinder it from
reaping the experiences it should reap upon
the other side of death, and they make it
desirable along with other reasons already
mentioned to live a long life before passing
onwards.
</p>

<p>
The difference between those who pass out
at a ripe old age, and one who leaves this
earth in the prime of life, may be illustrated
by the manner in which the seed clings to a
fruit in an unripe state. A great deal of
force is necessary to tear the stone from a
green peach; it has such a tenacious hold
upon the fruit that shreds of pulp adhere to
it when forcibly removed, so also the spirit
clings to the flesh in middle life and a certain
part of its material interest remain and
bind it to earth after death. On the other
hand, when a life has been lived to the full,
when the spirit has had time to realize its
ambitions or to find out their futility, when
the duties of life have been performed and
satisfaction rests upon the brow of an aged
man or woman; or when the life has been
misspent and the pangs of conscience have
worked upon the man and shown him his
mistakes; when, in fact, the spirit has learned
the lessons of life, as it must have to come
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
to old age; then it may be likened to the seed
of the ripe fruit which falls out clean, without
a vestige of flesh clinging thereto, at the
moment the encasing pulp is opened. Therefore
we say, as before, that though there is
a brighter existence in store for those who
have lived well, it is nevertheless best to live
a long life and to live it to the fullest extent
possible.
</p>

<p>
We also maintain, that no matter what may
be the circumstances of a man's death, it is
not accidental; it has either been brought
about by his own neglect to embrace opportunities
of growth, or else life has been lived
to the ultimate possible. There is one exception
to that rule, and that is due to man's
exercise of his divine prerogative of interference.
If we lived according to schedule,
if we all assimilated the experiences designed
for our growth by the Creative Powers,
we should live to the ultimate length, but
<emph>we ourselves</emph> usually shorten our lives by not
taking advantage of opportunities, and it also
happens that <emph>other men</emph> may shorten our
lives and cut them off as suddenly as the so-called
accident whereby the divine rulers
terminate our life here. In other words, murder,
or fatal accidents brought about <emph>by human
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
carelessness</emph>, are in reality the only termination
to life not planned by invisible leaders
of humanity. No one is ever compelled
to do murder or other evil, or there could not
come to them a just retribution for their acts.
The Christ said that evil must come but <hi rend='italic'>woe
unto him by whom it cometh</hi>, and to harmonize
that with the law of divine justice:
<q>as a man soweth, so shall he also reap,</q>
<emph>there must at least be absolute free will in
respect to evil acts</emph>.
</p>

<p>
There are also cases where a person lives
such a full and good life of such vast benefit
to humanity and to himself, that his days are
lengthened beyond the ultimate, as they are
shortened by neglect, but such cases are of
course too few to allow of their being dwelt
upon at length.
</p>

<p>
Where death is not sudden as in the case
of accidents, but occurs at home after an
illness, quietly and peacefully, dying persons
usually experience a falling upon them as of
a pall of great darkness shortly before termination
of life. Many pass out from the
body under that condition, and do not see the
light again until they have entered the super-physical
realms. There are many other cases
however, where the darkness lifts before the
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
final release from the body. Then the dying
person views both worlds at once, and is cognizant
of the presence of both dead and living
friends. Under such circumstances it
very often happens that a mother sees some
of her children who have gone before, and she
will exclaim joyously: Oh, there is Johnny
standing at the foot of my bed; my but hasn't
he grown! The living relatives may feel
shocked and uneasy, thinking the mother suffering
from hallucinations, while in reality
she is more clear-sighted than they; she perceives
those who have passed beyond the veil
who have come to greet and help her to make
herself at home in the new world she is entering.
</p>

<p>
Each human being is an individual, separate
and apart from all others, and as experiences
in the life of each differ from those of
all others in the interval from the cradle to
the grave, so we may also reasonably infer
that the experiences of each spirit vary from
those of every other spirit when it passes
through the gates of birth and death. We
print what purports to be a <hi rend='italic'>spirit message</hi>
communicated by the late Professor James of
Harvard at the Boston spirit temple, and in
which he describes sensations which he felt
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
when passing through the gate of death. We
do not vouch for its authenticity as we have
not investigated the matter personally.
</p>

<p>
Professor James had promised to communicate
after death with his friends in this
life, and the whole world of psychic research
was and still is on watch for a word from
him. Several mediums have claimed that
Professor James has communicated through
them, but the most remarkable are those
given through the Boston spirit temple as
follows:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
<q rend='pre'>And this is death, only to fall asleep, only to
awaken in the morning and to know that all is well.
I am not dead, only arisen.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>I only know that I experienced a great shock
through my entire system, as if some mighty bond
had been rent asunder. For a moment I was dazed
and lost consciousness. When I awakened I found
myself standing beside the old body which had
served me faithfully and well. To say that I was
surprised would only inadequately express the sensation
that thrilled my very being, and I realized
that some wonderful change had taken place. Suddenly
I became conscious that my body was surrounded
by many of my friends, and an uncontrollable
desire took possession of me to speak and
touch them that they might know that I still lived.
Drawing a little nearer to that which was so like
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
and yet unlike myself, I stretched forth my hand
and touched them, but they heeded me not.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Then it was that the full significance of the
great change that had taken place flashed upon my
newly awakened senses; then it was that I realized
that an impenetrable barrier separated me from my
loved ones on earth, and that this great change
which had taken place was indeed death. A sense
of weariness and longing for rest took possession
of me. I seemed to be transported through space,
and I lost consciousness, to awaken in a land so
different and yet so similar to the one which I had
lately left. It was not possible for me to describe
my sensations when I again regained consciousness
and realized that, though dead, I was still alive.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>When I first became conscious of my new environment
I was resting in a beautiful grove, and
was realizing as never before what it was to be at
peace with myself and all the world.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>I know that only with the greatest difficulty
shall I be enabled to express to you my sensations
when I fully realized that I had awakened to a new
life. All was still, no sound broke the silence. Darkness
had surrounded me. In fact, I seemed to be
enveloped in a heavy mist, beyond which my gaze
could not penetrate. Soon in the distance I discerned
a faint glimmer of light, which slowly approached
me, and then, to my wonder and joy, I
beheld the face of her who had been my guiding
star in the early days of my earth life.</q>
</p>
</quote>

<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>

<p>
One of the saddest sights witnessed by the
seer at a death-bed is the tortures to which
we often subject our dying friends on account
of ignorance of how to care for them in that
condition. We have a science of birth; obstetricians
who have been trained for years
in their profession and have developed a
wonderful skill, assist the little stranger into
this world. We have also trained nurses attendant
upon mother and child, the ingenuity
of brilliant minds is focused upon the problem
of how to make maternity easier, neither
pains nor money are spared in these beneficent
efforts for one whom we have never seen,
but when the friend of a lifetime, the man who
has served his kind well and nobly in profession,
state, or church, is to leave the scene
of his labors for a new field of activity, when
the woman&mdash;who has labored to no less good
purpose in bringing up a family to take its
part in the world's work&mdash;has to leave that
home and family, when one whom we have
loved all our lives is about to bid us the final
farewell, we stand by utterly at a loss how
to help; perhaps we even do the very things
most detrimental to the comfort and welfare
of the departing one.
</p>

<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>

<p>
Probably there is no form of torture more
commonly inflicted upon the dying than that
which is caused by administering stimulants.
Such potions have the effect of drawing a departing
spirit into its body with the force of
a catapult, to remain and to suffer for sometime
longer. Investigators of conditions beyond
have heard many complaints of such
treatment. When it is seen that death must
inevitably ensue, let not selfish desire to keep
a departing spirit a little longer prompt us
to inflict such tortures upon it. The death
chamber should be a place of the utmost
quiet, a place of peace and of prayer, for at
that time, and <emph>for three and one-half days
after the last breath</emph>, the spirit is passing
through a Gethsemane and needs all the assistance
that can be given. The value of the
life that has just been passed depends greatly
upon conditions which then prevail about the
body; yes even the conditions of its future
life are influenced by our attitude during
that time, so that if ever we were our brother's
keeper in life, we are a thousand times
more so at death.
</p>

<p>
Post-mortem examinations, embalming and
cremation during the period mentioned, not
only disturb the passing spirit mentally, but
<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>
are productive of a certain amount of
pain, for there is still a slight connection with
the discarded vehicle. If sanitary laws require
us to prevent decomposition while thus
keeping the body for cremation, it may be
packed in ice till the three and one-half days
have passed. After that time the spirit will
not suffer, no matter what happens to the
body.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Panorama of a Past Life.</hi>
</p>

<p>
No matter how long we may keep the spirit
from passing out however, at last there will
come a time when no stimulant can hold it
and the last breath is drawn. Then the silver
cord, of which the Bible speaks, and which
holds the higher and the lower vehicles together,
snaps in the heart and causes that organ
to stop. That rupture releases the vital
body, and that with the desire body and
mind float above the visible body for from
one to three and one-half days while the
spirit is engaged in reviewing the past life,
an exceedingly important part of its post-mortem
experience. Upon that review depends
its whole existence from death to a
new birth.
</p>

<p>
The question may arise in the student's
mind: How can we review our past life from
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
the cradle to the grave when we do not even
remember what we did a month ago, and to
form a proper basis for our future life, this
record ought to be very accurate, but even
the best memory is faulty? When we understand
the difference between the conscious
and sub-conscious memory and the manner
in which the latter operates, the difficulty
vanishes. This difference and the manner in
which the sub-conscious memory keeps an
accurate record of our life experiences may
be best understood by an illustration, as follows:
When we go into a field and view the
surrounding landscape, vibrations in the
ether carry to us a picture of everything
within the range of our vision. It is as sad
as it is true however, that <q>we have eyes and
see not,</q> as the Savior said. These vibrations
impinge upon the retina of our eyes,
even to the very smallest details, but they
usually do not penetrate to our consciousness,
and therefore are not remembered. Even
the most powerful impressions fade in
course of time so that we cannot call them
back at will when they are stored in our conscious
memory.
</p>

<p>
When a photographer goes afield <emph>with his
camera</emph> the results which he obtains are different.
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
The ether vibrations emanating from
all things upon which his camera is focused,
transmit to the sensitive plate an impression
of the landscape true to the minutest detail,
and, mark this well, this true and accurate
picture is in no wise dependent upon whether
the photographer is observant or not. It will
remain upon the plate and may be reproduced
under proper conditions. Such is the subconscious
memory, and it is generated automatically
by each of us during every moment
of time, independently of our volition, in the
following manner.
</p>

<p>
From the first breath which we draw after
birth to our last dying gasp, we inspire air
which is charged with pictures of our surroundings,
and the same ether which carries
that picture to the retina of our eye, is inhaled
into our lungs where it enters the
blood. Thus it reaches the heart in due time.
In the left ventricle of that organ, near the
apex, there is one little atom which is particularly
sensitized, and which remains in the
body all through life. It differs in this respect
from all other atoms which come and
go, for it is the particular property of God,
and of a certain spirit. This atom may be
called the book of the Recording Angel, for
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
as the blood passes through the heart, cycle
after cycle, the pictures of our good and evil
acts are inscribed thereon to the minutest detail.
This record may be called the sub-conscious
memory. It forms the basis of our future
life when reproduced as a panorama just
subsequent to death. By removal of the seed
atom&mdash;which corresponds to the sensitized
plate in a camera,&mdash;the reflecting ether of the
vital body serves as a focus, and as the life
unrolls slowly backwards from death to birth
the pictures thereof are etched into the desire
body which will be our vehicle during our
sojourn in purgatory and the first heaven
where evil is eradicated and good assimilated,
so that in a future life the former may serve
as <emph>conscience</emph> to withhold the man from repeating
mistakes of the past, and the latter
will spur us to greater good.
</p>

<p>
A phenomenon similar to the panorama of
life usually takes place when a person is
drowning. People who have been resuscitated
speak of having seen their whole life
<emph>in a flash</emph>. That is because under such conditions
the vital body also leaves the dense
body. Of course there is no rupture of the
silver cord, or life could not be restored.
Unconsciousness follows quickly in drowning,
<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>
while in the usual post-mortem review the
consciousness continues until the vital body
collapses in the same manner that it does
when we go to sleep. Then consciousness
ceases for a while and the panorama is terminated.
Therefore also the time occupied
by the panorama varies with different persons,
according to whether the vital body was
strong and healthy, or had become thin and
emaciated by protracted illness. The longer
the time spent in review, and the more quiet
and peaceful the surroundings, the deeper
will be the etching which is made in the desire
body. As already said, that has a most important
and far reaching effect, for then the
sufferings which the spirit will realize in
purgatory on account of bad habits and misdeeds
will be much more keen than if there
is only a slight impression, and in a future
life the still small voice of conscience will
warn so much more insistently against mistakes
which caused sufferings in the past.
</p>

<p>
When conditions are such at the time of
death that the spirit is disturbed by outside
conditions, for instance the din and turmoil
of a battle, the harrowing conditions of an
accident or the hysterical wailings of relatives,
the distraction prevents it from realizing
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
an appropriate depth in the etching upon
the desire body. Consequently its post-mortem
existence becomes vague and insipid, the
spirit does not harvest fruits of experience
as it should have done had it passed out of
the body in peace and under normal conditions.
It would therefore lack incentive to
good in a future life, and miss the warning
against evil which a deep etching of the panorama
of life would have given. Thus its
growth would be retarded in a very marked
degree, but the beneficent powers in charge of
evolution take certain steps to compensate
for our ignorant treatment of the dying and
other untoward circumstances mentioned.
What these steps are, we shall discuss when
considering the life of children in heaven, for
the present let it be sufficient to say that in
God's kingdom every evil is always transmuted
to a greater good though the process may
not be at once apparent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Purgatory.</hi>
</p>

<p>
During life the collapse of the vital body
at night terminates our view of the world
about us, and causes us to lose ourselves in
unconsciousness of sleep. When the vital
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
body collapses just subsequent to death, and
the panorama of life is terminated, we also
lose consciousness for a time which varies according
to the individual. A darkness seems
to fall upon the spirit, then after a while it
wakes up and begins dimly to perceive the
light of the other world, but is only gradually
accustomed to the altered conditions. It is an
experience similar to that which we have when
coming out of a darkened room into sunlight,
which blinds us by its brilliancy, until the
pupils of our eyes have contracted so that
they admit a quantity of light bearable to
our organism.
</p>

<p>
If under such a condition we turn momentarily
from the bright sunlight and look back
into the darkened room, objects there will be
much more plain to our vision than things
outside which are illumined by the powerful
rays of the sun. So it is also with the spirit,
when it has first been released from the body
it perceives sights, scenes and sounds of the
material world, which it has just left, much
more readily than it observes the sights of
the world it is entering. Wordsworth in his
Ode to Immortality noted a similar condition
in the case of new-born children, who are all
clairvoyant and much more awake to the
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
spiritual world than to this present plane of
existence. Some lose the spiritual sight very
early, others retain it for a number of years
and a few keep it all through life, but as the
birth of a child is a death in the spiritual
world and it retains the spiritual sight for a
time, so also death here is a birth upon the
spiritual plane, and the newly dead retain a
consciousness of this world for some time
subsequent to demise.
</p>

<p>
When one awakes in the Desire World after
having passed through aforementioned
experiences, the general feeling seems to be
one of relief from a heavy burden, a feeling
perhaps akin to that of a diver encased in a
heavy rubber suit, a weighty brass helmet
upon his head, leaden soles under his feet
and heavy weights of lead upon his breast
and back, confined in his operations on the
bottom of the ocean by a short length of air
tube, and able only to move clumsily with
difficulty. When after the day's work such
a man is hauled to the surface, and divests
himself of his heavy garments and he moves
about with the facility we enjoy here, he must
surely experience a feeling of great relief.
Something like that is felt by the spirit when
it has been divested of the mortal coil, and is
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
able to roam all over the globe instead of being
confined to the narrow environment which
bound it upon earth.
</p>

<p>
There is also a feeling of relief for those
who have been ill. Sickness, such as we know
it, does not exist there. Neither is it necessary
to seek food and shelter, for in that
world there is neither heat nor cold. Nevertheless,
there are many in the purgatorial regions
who go to all bothers of housekeeping,
eating and drinking just as we do here.
George Du Maurier in his novel <q>Peter Ibbetson</q>
gives a very good idea of this condition
in the life lived between the hero and
the Countess of Towers. This novel also illustrates
splendidly what has been said of the
sub-conscious memory, for Geo. Du Maurier
has somewhere, somehow discovered an easy
method which anyone may apply to do what
he calls <q>dreaming true.</q> By taking a certain
position in going to sleep, it is possible,
after a little practice, to compel the appearance,
in a dream, of any scene <emph>in our past
life</emph> which we desire to live over again. The
book is well worth reading on that account.
</p>

<p>
When a fiery nebula has been formed in
the sky and commences to revolve, a little
matter in the center where motion is slowest
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
commences to crystallize. When it has reached
a certain density it is caught in the swirl, and
whirled nearer and nearer to the outward
extremity of what has, by that time, become
the equator of a revolving globe. Then it is
hurled into space and discarded from the
economy of the revolving sun.
</p>

<p>
This process is not accomplished automatically
as scientists would have us believe,&mdash;an
assertion which has been proven in <hi rend='italic'>The
Rosicrucian Cosmo Conception</hi> and other
places in our literature. Herbert Spencer
also rejected the nebular theory because it
required a First Cause, which he denied,
though unable to form a better hypothesis of
the formation of solar systems,&mdash;but it is
accomplished through the activity of a Great
Spirit, which we may call God or by any
other name we choose. As above, so below,
says the Hermetic axiom. Man, who is a
lesser spirit, also gathers about himself
spirit-substance, which crystallizes into matter
and becomes the visible body which the
spiritual sight reveals as placed inside an
aura of finer vehicles. The latter are in constant
motion. When the dense body is born
as a child it is extremely soft and flexible.
</p>

<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>

<p>
Childhood, youth, maturity and old age are
but so many different stages of crystallization,
which goes on until at last a point is
reached where the spirit can no longer move
the hardened body and it is thrown out from
the spirit as the planet is expelled from the
sun. That is death!&mdash;the commencement of
a disrobing process which continues in purgatory.
The low evil passions and desires
we cultivated during life have crystallized
the desire stuff in such a manner that that
also must be expelled. Thus the spirit is
purged of evil under the same law that a
sun is purged of the matter which later forms
a planet. If the life lived has been a reasonably
decent one, the process of purgation
will not be very strenuous nor will the evil
desires thus expurgated persist for a long
time after having been freed, but they quickly
disintegrate. If, on the other hand, an
extremely vile life has been led, the part of
the expurgated desire nature may persist
even to the time when the spirit returns to a
new birth for further experience. It will then
be attracted to him and haunt him as a demon,
inciting him to evil deeds which he
himself abhors. The story of Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde is not a mere fanciful idea of
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
Robert Louis Stevenson, but is founded upon
facts well known to spiritual investigators.
Such cases are extremes of course, but they
are nevertheless possible and we have unfortunately
laws which convert such possibilities
to probabilities in the case of a certain
class of so-called criminals. We refer to laws
which decree capital punishment as penalty
of murder.
</p>

<p>
When a man is dangerous he should of
course be restrained, but even apart from the
question of the moral right of a community
to take the life of anyone&mdash;which we deny&mdash;society
by its very act of retaliatory murder
defeats the very end it would serve, for if the
vicious murderer is restrained under whatever
discipline is necessary in a prison for a
number of years until his natural death, he
will have forgotten his bitterness against his
victim and against society, and when he
stands as a free spirit in the Desire World,
he may even by prayer have obtained forgiveness
and have become a good Christian.
He will then go on his way rejoicing, and
will in the future life seek to help those whom
he hurt here.
</p>

<p>
When society retaliates and puts him to
a violent death shortly after he has committed
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
the crime, he is most likely to feel himself
as having been greatly injured, and not
without cause. Then such a character will
usually seek to <q>get even</q> as he calls it, he
will go about for a long time inciting others
to commit murder and other crimes. Then
we have an epidemic of murders in a community,
a condition not infrequent.
</p>

<p>
The regicide in Servia shocked the Western
World by wiping out an entire royal house in
a most shockingly bloody manner, and the
Minister of the Interior was one of the chief
conspirators. Later he wrote his memoirs,
and therein he writes that whenever the conspirators
had tried to win anyone as a recruit,
they always succeeded when they burned
incense. He did not know why, but simply
mentioned it as a curious coincidence.
To the mystic investigator the matter is perfectly
clear. We have shown the necessity of
having a vehicle made of the materials of any
world wherein we wish to function. We usually
obtain a physical vehicle by going
through the womb, or perhaps in a few
special cases from a particularly good materializing
medium, but where it is only necessary
to work upon the brain and influence
someone else to act, we need but a vehicle
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
made of such ether as may be obtained from
fumes of many different substances. Each
kind attracts different classes of spirits, and
there is no doubt that the incense burned at
meetings where the conspirators were successful
was of a low and sensual order and
attracted spirits who had a grudge against
humanity in general and the King of Servia
in particular. These malcontents were unable
to injure the King himself, but used a
subtle influence which helped the conspirators
in their work. The released murderer who
has a grudge against society on account of
his execution, may enter low gambling saloons
where the fumes of liquor and tobacco
furnish ample opportunity for working upon
the class of people who congregate in such
places, and the man whose spiritual sight has
been developed is often sadly impressed when
he sees the subtle influences to which those
who frequent such places are exposed. It is a
fact of course that a man must be of a low
caliber to be influenced by low thoughts, and
that it is as impossible to incite a person of
benevolent character to do murder&mdash;unless
we put him into a hypnotic sleep&mdash;as to
make a tuning fork which vibrates to C sing
by striking another attuned to the key of G,
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
but the thoughts of both living and dead constantly
surround us, and no man ever thought
out a high spiritual philosophy under the influence
of tobacco fumes or while imbibing
alcoholic stimulants. Were capital punishment,
newspaper notoriety of criminals, the
<emph>manufacture</emph> of liquor and tobacco eliminated
from society, the gun factories would soon
cease to advertise and go out of business
along with most of the locksmiths. The police
force would decrease, so would jails and
taxes would be correspondingly minimized.
</p>

<p>
When a person enters purgatory he is exactly
the same person as before he died. He
has just the same appetites, likes and dislikes,
sympathies and antipathies, as before.
There is one important difference, however,
namely, that <emph>he has no dense body wherewith
to gratify his appetites</emph>. The drunkard craves
drink, in fact, far more than he did in this
life, but has no stomach which can contain
liquor and cause chemical combustion necessary
to bring about the state of intoxication
in which he delights. He may and does enter
saloons, where he interpolates his body
into the body of a physical drunkard, so that
he may obtain his desires at second hand as
it were, he will incite his victim to drink more
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
and more. Yet there is no true satisfaction.
He sees the full glass upon the counter but
his spirit hand is unable to lift it. He suffers
tortures of Tantalus until in time he
realizes the impossibility of gratifying his
base desire. Then he is free to go on so
far as that vice is concerned. He has been
purged from that evil without intervention of
an angry deity or a conventional devil with
hell's flames and pitchfork to administer
punishment, but under the immutable law
that as we sow so shall we reap, he has suffered
exactly according to his vice. If his
craving for drink was of a mild nature, he
would scarcely miss the liquor which he cannot
there obtain. If his desires were strong
and he simply lived for drink, he would suffer
veritable tortures of hell without need
of actual flames. Thus the pain experienced
in eradication of his vice would be exactly
commensurate with the energy he had expended
upon contracting the habit, as the
force wherewith a falling stone strikes the
earth is proportionate to the energy expended
in hurling it upwards into the air.
</p>

<p>
Yet it is not the aim of God to <q>get even;</q>
<emph>love</emph> is higher than <emph>law</emph> and in His wonderful
mercy and solicitude for our welfare He has
<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>
opened the way of repentance and reform
whereby we may obtain forgiveness of sin, as
taught by the Lord of Love: the Christ. Not
indeed contrary to law, for His laws are immutable,
but by application of a higher law,
whereby we accomplish here that which
would otherwise be delayed until death had
forced the day of reckoning. The method is
as follows:
</p>

<p>
In our explanation concerning the sub-conscious
memory we noted that a record of
every act, thought and word is transmitted
by air and ether into our lungs, thence to the
blood, and finally inscribed upon the tablet of
the heart:&mdash;a certain little <hi rend='italic'>seedatom</hi>, which is
thus the book of Recording Angels. It was
later explained how this panorama of life is
etched into the desire body and forms the basis
of retribution after death. When we have
committed a wrong and our conscience accuses
us in consequence, and this accusation
is productive of sincere repentance <emph>accompanied
by reform</emph>, the picture of that wrong
act will gradually fade from the record of our
life, so that when we pass out at death it will
not stand accusingly against us. We noted
that the panorama of life unwinds backwards
just after death. Later, in the purgatorial
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
life it again passes before the spiritual vision
of the man, who then experiences the exact
feeling of those whom he has wronged. He
seems to lose his own identity for the time being,
and assumes the condition of his one
time victim, he experiences all the mental and
physical suffering himself which he inflicted
upon others. Thus he learns to be merciful
instead of cruel, and to do right instead of
wrong in a future life. But if he awakens to
a thorough realization of a wrong previous to
his death, then, as said, the feeling of sorrow
for his victim and the restitution or redress
which he gives of his own free will, make the
suffering after death unnecessary, hence&mdash;<q>his
sin is forgiven.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Rosicrucian Mystery teaching gives a
scientific method whereby an aspirant to higher
life may purge himself continually, and thus
be able to entirely avoid existence in purgatory.
Each night after retiring the pupil reviews
his life during the past day <emph>in reverse
order</emph>. He starts to visualize as clearly as
possible the scene which took place just before
retiring. He then endeavors to impartially
view his actions in that scene examining
them to see whether he did right or wrong. If
the latter, he endeavors to <emph>feel and realize as
<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>
vividly as possible</emph> that wrong. For instance,
if he spoke harshly to someone, and upon later
consideration finds it was not merited, he will
endeavor to <emph>feel</emph> exactly as that one felt whom
he wronged and at the very earliest opportunity
to apologize for the hasty expression.
Then he will call up the next scene in backward
succession which may perhaps be the
supper table. In respect of that scene he will
examine himself as to whether he ate to live,
sparingly and of foods prepared without suffering
to other creatures of God, (such as
flesh foods that cannot be obtained without
taking life). If he finds that he allowed his
appetite to run away with him and that he
ate gluttonously, he will endeavor to overcome
these habits, for to live a clean life we
must have a clean body and no one can live to
his highest possibilities while making his
stomach a graveyard for the decaying corpses
of murdered animals. In this respect there
occurs to the writer a little poem by Ella
Wheeler Wilcox:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>I am the voice of the voiceless;</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Through me the dumb shall speak,</l>
<l>Till a deaf world's ear</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Shall be made to hear</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>The wrongs of the wordless weak.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>

<lg>
<l>The same force formed the sparrow</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That fashioned man the king;</l>
<l>The God of the whole</l>
<l>Gave a spark of soul</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>To furred and feathered thing.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>And I am my brother's keeper</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And I will fight his fight,</l>
<l>And speak the word</l>
<l>For beast and bird</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Till the world shall set things right.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
Thus the pupil will continue to review each
scene <emph>in reverse order</emph> from night till morning,
and to <emph>feel really sorry</emph> for whatever he
has done amiss. He will not neglect to <emph>feel
glad</emph> either when he comes to a scene where
he has done well, and <emph>the more intensely he
can feel, the more thoroughly he will eradicate
the record upon the tablet of the heart
and sharpen his conscience</emph>, so that as time
goes on from year to year, he will find less
cause for blame and enhance his soul power
enormously. Thus he will grow in a measure
impossible by any less systematic method,
and there will be no necessity for his stay in
purgatory after death.
</p>

<p>
This evening exercise and another, for the
morning, if persistently performed day by
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
day, will in time awaken the spiritual vision
as they improve life. This matter has, however,
been so thoroughly treated in number
11 of the lecture series: <q><hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Sight
and Insight; its safe culture and control</hi>,</q>
that it is unnecessary to dwell upon the matter
further in this place.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The First Heaven.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In the first heaven, which is located in the
higher regions of the Desire World, the panorama
of life again unrolls and reveals every
scene where we aimed to help or benefit others.
They were not felt at the time the spirit
was in the lower regions, for higher desires
cannot express themselves in the coarse matter
composing the lower regions of the Desire
World, but when the spirit ascends to
the first heaven it reaps from each scene all
the good which it expressed in life. It will
feel the gratitude poured out by those whom
it helped; if it comes to a scene where itself
received a favor from others <emph>and was grateful</emph>,
it will experience the gratitude anew.
The sum of all these feelings is there amalgamated
into the spirit to serve in a future life
as incentives to good.
</p>

<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>

<p>
Thus, the soul is purged from evil in purgatory,
and strengthened in good in the first
heaven. In one region the extract of sufferings
become <emph>conscience</emph> to deter us from doing
wrong, in the other region the quintessence
of good is transmuted to <emph>benevolence</emph> and altruism
which are the basis of all true progress.
Moreover, purgatory is far from being
a place of <emph>punishment</emph>, it is perhaps the most
beneficent realm in nature, for <emph>because of
purgation we are born innocent</emph> life after life.
The tendencies to commit the same evil for
which we suffered remain with us and temptations
to commit the same wrongs will be
placed in our path until we have consciously
overcome the evil here; temptation is not sin,
however, the sin is in yielding.
</p>

<p>
Among the inhabitants of the invisible
world there is one class which lives a particularly
painful life, sometimes for a great
many years, namely, the suicide who tried to
play truant from the school of life. Yet it is
not an angry God or a malevolent devil who
administers punishment, but an immutable
law which proportions the sufferings differently
to each individual suicide.
</p>

<p>
We learned previously, when considering
the World of Thought, that each form in this
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
visible world has its archetype there,&mdash;a vibrating
hollow mold which emits a certain
harmonious sound; that sound attracts and
forms physical matter into the shape we behold,
much in the same manner as when we
place a little sand upon a glass plate and rub
the edge with a violin bow, the sand is shaped
into different geometrical figures which
change as the sound changes.
</p>

<p>
The little atom in the heart is the sample
and the center around which the atoms in our
body gather. When that is removed at death,
the center is lacking, and although the archetype
keeps on vibrating until the limit of the
life has been reached&mdash;as also previously explained,&mdash;no
matter can be drawn into the
hollow shape of the archetype and therefore
the suicide feels a dreadful gnawing pain as
if he were hollowed out, a torture which can
only be likened to the pangs of hunger. In
his case, the intense suffering will continue
for exactly as many years as he should have
lived in the body. At the expiration of that
time, the archetype collapses as it does when
death comes naturally. Then the pain of the
suicide ceases, and he commences his period
of purgation as do those who die a natural
death. But the memory of sufferings experienced
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
in consequence of the act of suicide will
remain with him in future lives and deter him
from a similar mistake.
</p>

<p>
In the first heaven there is a class who have
not had any purgatorial existence and who
lead a particularly joyous life: the children.
Our homes may be saddened almost beyond
endurance when the little flower is broken
and the sunshine it brought has gone. But
could we see the beautiful existence which
these little ones lead, and did we understand
the great benefits which accrue to a child from
its limited stay there, our sorrow would be at
least ameliorated in a great measure, and the
wound upon our heart would heal more
quickly. Besides, as nothing else in the
world happens without a cause, so there is
also a much deeper cause for infant mortality
than we are usually aware of, and as we
awake to the facts of the case, we shall be
able to avoid in future the sorrow incident to
loss of our little ones.
</p>

<p>
To understand the case properly we must
revert to the experiences of the dying in the
death hour. We remember that the panorama
of the past life is etched upon the desire
body during a period varying from a few
hours to three and one-half days, just subsequent
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
to demise. We recall also, that upon
the depth of this etching depends the clearness
of the picture, and that the more vivid
this panorama of life, the more intensely will
the spirit suffer in purgatory and feel the
joys of heaven; also, that the greater the suffering
in purgatory the stronger the conscience
in the next life.
</p>

<p>
It was explained how the horrors of death
upon the battlefield, in an accident or other
untoward circumstances would prevent the
spirit from giving all its attention to the panorama
of life with the result that there would
be a light etching in the desire body, followed
by a vague and insipid existence in purgatory
and the first heaven. It was also stated that
hysterical lamentations in the death chamber
would produce the same effect.
</p>

<p>
A spirit which had thus escaped suffering
proportionate to its misdeeds, and which had
not experienced the pleasure commensurate
with the good it had done, would not in a future
life have as well developed a conscience
as it ought to have, nor would it be as benevolent
as it ought to be, and therefore the life,
terminated under conditions over which the
spirit had no control, would be partly wasted.
The Great Leaders of humanity therefore
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
take steps to counteract such a calamity and
prevent an injustice. The spirit is brought
to birth, caused to die in childhood, it re-enters
the Desire World and in the first heaven
it is taught the lessons of which it was deprived
previously.
</p>

<p>
As the first heaven is located in the Desire
World,&mdash;which is the realm of light and color,&mdash;where
matter is shaped most readily by
thought, the little ones are given wonderful
toys impossible of construction here. They
are taught to play with <emph>colors which work
upon their moral character</emph> in exactly the
manner each child requires. Anyone who is
at all sensitive is affected by the color of his
clothing and surroundings. Some colors have
a depressing effect, while others inspire us
with energy, and others again soothe and
comfort us. In the Desire World the effect
of colors is much more intense, they are much
more potent factors of good and evil there
than here, and in this color play, the child
imbibes unconsciously the qualities which it
did not acquire on account of accident or lamentations
of relatives. Often it also falls to
the lot of such relatives to care for a child in
the invisible world, or perhaps to give it birth
and see it die. Thus they receive just retribution
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
for the wrong committed. As wars
cease, and man learns to be more careful of
life, and also how to care for the dying, infant
mortality, which now is so appalling, will
decrease.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Second Heaven.</hi>
</p>

<p>
When both the good and evil of a life has
been extracted, the spirit discards its desire
body and ascends to the second heaven. The
desire body then commences to disintegrate
as the physical body and the vital body have
done, but it is a peculiarity of desire stuff,
that once it has been formed and inspired
with life, it persists for a considerable time.
Even after that life has fled it lives a semi-conscious,
independent life. Sometimes it is
drawn by magnetic attraction to relatives of
the spirit whose clothing it was, and at spiritualistic
seances these <hi rend='italic'>shells</hi> generally impersonate
the departed spirit and deceive its relatives.
As the panorama of the past life is
etched into the shells they have a memory of
incidents in connection with these relatives,
which facilitates the deception. But as the
intelligence has fled, they are of course unable
to give any true counsel, and that accounts
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
for the inane, goody-goody nonsense
of which these things deliver themselves.
</p>

<p>
When passing from the first to the second
heaven, the spirit experiences the condition
known and described previously as <q>The
Great Silence,</q> where it stands utterly alone
conscious only of its divinity. When that silence
is broken there floats in upon the spirit
celestial harmonies of <emph>the world of tone</emph>
where the second heaven is located. It seems
then to lave in an ocean of sound and to experience
a joy beyond all description and
words, as it nears its heavenly home&mdash;for this
is the first of the truly spiritual realms from
which the spirit has been exiled during its
earth life and the subsequent post-mortem
existence. In the Desire World its work was
<emph>corrective</emph>, but in the World of Thought the
human spirit becomes one with the nature
forces and its <emph>creative</emph> activity begins.
</p>

<p>
Under the law of causation we reap exactly
what we sow, and it would be wrong to place
one spirit in an environment where there is a
scarcity of the necessities of life, where a
scorching sun burns the crop and millions die
from famine, or where the raging flood
sweeps away primitive habitations not built
to withstand its ravages, and to bring another
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
spirit to birth in a land of plenty, with a fertile
soil which yields a maximum of increase
with a minimum of labor, where the earth is
rich in minerals that may be used in industry
to facilitate transportation of products of the
soil from one point to another. If we were
thus placed without action or acquiescence
upon our part, there would be no justice, but
as our post-mortem existence in purgatory
and the first heaven is based upon our moral
attitude in this life so our activities in the
second heaven are determined by our mental
aspirations and they produce our future
physical environment, for in the second heaven,
the spirit becomes part of the nature
forces which work upon the earth and change
its climate, flora and fauna. A spirit of an
indolent nature, who indulges in day dreams
and metaphysical speculations <emph>here</emph>, is not
transformed by death respecting its mental
attitude any more than regarding its moral
propensities. It will dream away time in
heaven, glorying in its sights and sounds.
Thus it will neglect to work upon its future
country and return to a barren and arid land.
Spirits, on the other hand, whose material
aspirations lead them to desire so-called solid
comforts of hearth and home, who aim to
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
promote great industries and whose mind is
concerned in trade and commerce, will build
in heaven a land that will suit their purpose:
fertile, immineralized, with navigable rivers
and sheltered harbors. They will return in
time to enjoy upon earth the fruits of their
labors in the second heaven, as they reap the
result of their life upon earth in purgatory
and the first heaven.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Third Heaven.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In the third heaven most people have very
little consciousness for reasons explained in
connection with the Region of Abstract
Thought, for there the third heaven is located.
It is therefore more of a place of waiting
where the spirit rests between the time
when its labors in the second heaven have been
completed and the time when it again experiences
the desire for rebirth. But from this
realm inventors bring down their original
ideas; there the philanthropist obtains the
clearest vision of how to realize his utopian
dreams and the spiritual aspirations of the
saintly minded are given renewed impetus.
</p>

<p>
In time the desires of the spirit for further
experiences draws it back to rebirth, and the
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
Great Celestial Beings who are known in the
Christian Religion as Recording Angels, assist
the spirit to come to birth in the place
best suited to give it the experience necessary
to further unfold its powers and possibilities.
</p>

<p>
We have all been here many times and in
different families, we have had relations of
varying nature with many different people
and usually there are several families among
whom we may seek re-embodiment to work
out our self-generated destiny and reap what
we have sown in former life. If there are no
special reasons why we should take birth in
any particular family among certain friends
or foes, the spirit is allowed to choose its own
place of birth. Thus it may be said that most
of us are in our present places by our own
prenatal choice.
</p>

<p>
In order to assist us in making that choice
the Recording Angels call up before the spirit's
vision a panorama in general outlines of
each of the offered lives. This panorama will
show what part of our past debts we are to
pay, and what fruits we may be expected to
reap in the coming life.
</p>

<p>
The spirit is left free to choose between the
several lives offered. But once a choice has
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
been made no evasion is possible during life.
We have free will with regard to the future,
but the past <q><emph>mature</emph></q> destiny we cannot escape,
as shown by the incident recorded in
<hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Cosmo Conception</hi>, where
the writer warned a well known Los Angeles
lecturer that if he left his home upon a certain
day, he would be injured by a conveyance,
in head, neck, breast and shoulders.
The gentleman believed and intended to heed
our warning. Nevertheless he went to Sierra
Madre to lecture upon the fateful day. He
was injured in the places stated by a collision
and later explained: <q>I thought the twenty-eighth
was the twenty-ninth.</q>
</p>

<p>
When the spirit has made its choice, it descends
into the second heaven where it is instructed
by the Angels and Archangels how
to build an archetype of the body which it
will later inhabit upon earth. Also here we
note the operation of the great law of justice
which decrees that we reap what we sow. If
our tastes are coarse and sensual, we shall
build an archetype which will express these
qualities; if we are refined and of aesthetic
taste, we shall build an archetype correspondingly
refined, but no one can obtain a
better body than he can build. Then, as the
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
architect who builds a house in which he afterwards
lives, will suffer discomfort if he
neglects to properly ventilate it, so also the
spirit feels disease in a poorly constructed
body, and as the architect learns to avoid
mistakes and remedy the short-comings of
one house when building another, so also the
spirit which suffers from defects in its body,
learns in time to build better and better vehicles.
</p>

<p>
In the Region of Concrete Thought, the
spirit also draws to itself materials for a new
mind. As a magnet draws iron filings but
leaves other substances alone, so also each
spirit draws only the kind of mind-stuff which
it used in its former life, plus that which it
has learned to use in its present post-mortem
state. Then it descends into the Desire
World where it gathers material for a new
desire body such as will express appropriately
its moral characteristics, and later it
attracts a certain amount of ether which is
built into the mold of the archetype constructed
in the second heaven and acts as cement
between the solids, liquids and gaseous
material from the bodies of parents which
forms the dense physical body of a child, and
in due time the latter is brought to birth.
</p>

<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Birth and Child Life.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It must not be imagined, however, that
when the little body of a child has been born,
the process of birth is completed. The dense
physical body has had the longest evolution,
and as a shoemaker who has worked at his
trade for a number of years is more expert
than an apprentice and can make better shoes
and <emph>quicker</emph>, so also the spirit which has built
many physical bodies produces them quickly,
but the vital body is a later acquisition of the
human being. Therefore we are not so expert
in building that vehicle. Consequently it
takes longer to construct that from the materials
not used up in making the lining of the
archetype, and the vital body is not born until
the seventh year. Then the period of rapid
growth commences. The desire body is a
still later addition of composite man, and is
not brought to birth until the fourteenth year
when the desire nature expresses itself most
strongly during so-called <q>hot</q> youth, and the
mind, which makes man man, does not come
to birth until the twenty-first year. In law
that age is recognized as the earliest time he
is fitted to exercise a franchise.
</p>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<p>
This knowledge is of the utmost importance
to parents, as a proper understanding of the
development which should take place in each
of the septenary epochs enables the educator
to work intelligently with nature and thus
fulfill more thoroughly the trust of a parent
than those who are ignorant of the Rosicrucian
Mystery Teaching. We shall therefore
devote the remaining pages to an elucidation
of this matter and of the importance of the
knowledge of astrology upon the part of the
parent.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Mystery of Light, Color and
Consciousness.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>God is Light,</q> says the Bible, and we are
unable to conceive of a grander simile of His
Omnipresence, or the mode of His manifestation.
Even the greatest telescopes have
failed to reach the boundaries of light, though
they reveal to us stars millions of miles from
the earth, and we may well ask ourselves, as
did the Psalmist of old: Whither shall I flee
from Thy Presence? If I ascend into heaven
Thou art there, If I make my bed in the grave
(the Hebrew word <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>sheol</foreign>
means <hi rend='italic'>grave</hi> and
not hell), Thou art there, If I take the wings
<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>
of morning and dwell in the uttermost parts
of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead
me.
</p>

<p>
When, in the dawn of Being, <hi rend='italic'>God the Father</hi>
enunciated <hi rend='italic'>The Word</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>The Holy Spirit</hi>
moved upon the sea of homogeneous <hi rend='italic'>Virgin
Matter</hi>, primeval <hi rend='italic'>Darkness</hi> was turned to
<hi rend='italic'>Light</hi>. That is therefore the prime manifestation
of Deity, and a study of the principles
of Light will reveal to the mystic intuition a
wonderful source of spiritual inspiration. As
it would take us too far afield from our subject
we shall not enter into an elucidation of
that theme here, except so far as to give an
elementary idea of how divine Life energizes
the human frame and stimulates to action.
</p>

<p>
Truly, God is ONE and undivided, He enfolds
within His Being all that is, as the white
light embraces all colors. But He appears
three-fold in manifestation, as the white light
is refracted in three primary colors: Blue,
Yellow and Red. Wherever we see these colors
they are emblematical of the Father, Son
and Holy Spirit. These three primary rays
of divine Life are diffused or radiated
through the sun and produce <hi rend='italic'>Life</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Consciousness</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>Form</hi> upon each of the seven light-bearers,
the planets, which are called <q>the
<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>
Seven Spirits before the Throne.</q> Their
names are: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars,
Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. Bode's law
proves that Neptune does not belong to our
solar system and the reader is referred to
<q>Simplified Scientific Astrology</q> by the
present writer, for mathematical demonstration
of this contention.
</p>

<p>
Each of the seven planets receives the light
of the sun in a different measure, according
to its proximity to the central orb and the
constitution of its atmosphere, and the beings
upon each, according to their stage of
development, have affinity for some of the
solar rays. They absorb the color or colors
congruous to them, and reflect the remainder
upon the other planets. This reflected ray
bears with it an impulse of the nature of the
beings with which it has been in contact.
</p>

<p>
Thus the divine Light and Life comes to
each planet, either directly from the sun, or
reflected from its six sister planets, and as
the summer breeze which has been wafted
over blooming fields carries upon its silent
invisible wings the blended fragrance of a
multitude of flowers, so also the subtle influences
from the garden of God bring to us the
commingled impulses of all the Spirits and
<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>
in that varicolored light we live and move and
have our being.
</p>

<p>
The rays which come directly from the sun
are productive of spiritual illumination, the
reflected rays from other planets make for
added consciousness and moral development
and the rays reflected by way of the moon
give physical growth.
</p>

<p>
But as each planet can only absorb a certain
quantity of one or more colors according
to the general stage of evolution there, so
each being upon earth: mineral, plant, animal
and man can only absorb and thrive upon a
certain quantity of the various rays projected
upon the earth. The remainder do not affect
it or produce sensation, any more than
the blind are conscious of light and color
which exist everywhere around them.
Therefore each being is differently affected
by the stellar rays and the science of Astrology
a fundamental truth in nature, of enormous
benefit in the attainment of spiritual
growth.
</p>

<p>
From a horoscopic figure in mystic script
we may learn our own strength and weakness,
with the path best suited to our development,
or we may see the tendencies of those friends
who come to us as children, and what traits
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
are dormant in them. Thus we shall know
clearly how to discharge our duty as parents,
by repressing evil before it comes to birth
and fostering good, so that it may bring forth
most abundantly the spiritual potencies of
the soul committed to our care.
</p>

<p>
As we have already said, man returns to
earth to reap that which he has sown in previous
lives and to sow anew the seeds which
make for future experience. The stars are
the heavenly time keepers which measure the
year, the moon indicates the month when time
will be propitious to harvest or to sow.
</p>

<p>
The child is a mystery to us all, we can
only know its propensities as they slowly develop
into characteristics, but it is usually
too late to check when evil habits have been
formed and the youth is upon the downward
grade. A horoscope cast for the time of birth
in a scientific manner shows the tendencies
to good or evil in the child, and if a parent
will take time and trouble necessary to study
the science of the stars, he or she may do the
child intrusted to his or her care an inestimable
service by fostering tendencies to good
and repressing the evil bent of a child ere it
has crystallized into habit. Do not imagine
that a superior mathematical knowledge is
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
necessary to erect a horoscope. Many construct
a horoscope in such an involved manner,
so <q>fearfully and wonderfully made</q>
that it is unreadable to themselves or others,
while a simple figure easy of reading may be
constructed by anyone who knows how to add
and subtract. This method has been thoroughly
elucidated in Simplified Scientific
Astrology which is a complete text book,
though small and inexpensive, and parents
who have the welfare of their children
thoroughly at heart should endeavor to learn
for themselves, for even though their ability
may not compare with that of a professional
astrologer, their intimate knowledge of the
child and their deep interest will more than
compensate for such lack and enable them to
see most deeply into the child's character by
means of its horoscope.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Education of Children.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Respecting the birth of the various vehicles
and the influence which that has upon
life, we may say that during the time from
birth to the seventh year the lines of growth
of the physical body are determined, and as
it has been noted that sound is builder both
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
in the great and small, we may well imagine
that rhythm must have an enormous influence
upon the growing and sensitive little
child's organism. The apostle John in the
first chapter of his gospel expresses this idea
mystically in the beautiful words: <q>In the
beginning was the WORD ... and
without it was not anything made that was
made ... and the word became flesh;</q>
the word is a rhythmic sound, which issued
from the Creator, reverberated through the
universe and marshaled countless millions of
atoms into the multiplex variety of shapes
and forms which we see about us. The
mountain, the mayflower, the mouse and the
man are all embodiments of that great Cosmic
Word which is still sounding through the
universe and which is still building and ever
building though unheard by our insensitive
ears. But though we do not hear that wonderful
celestial sound, we may work upon
the little child's body by terrestrial music,
and though the nursery rhymes are without
sense, they are nevertheless bearers of a wonderful
rhythm, and the more a child is taught
to say, sing and repeat them, to dance and to
march to them, the more music is incorporated
into a child's daily life, the stronger
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
and healthier will be its body in future years.
</p>

<p>
There are two mottoes which apply during
this period, one to the child and the other to
the parent: <hi rend='italic'>Example</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>Imitation</hi>. No creature
under heaven is more imitative than a
little child, and its conduct in after years will
depend largely upon the example set by its
parents during its early life. It is no use to
tell the child <q>not to mind,</q> it has no mind
wherewith to discriminate, but follows its
natural tendency, as water flows down a hill,
when it imitates. Therefore it behooves
every parent to remember from morning till
night that watchful eyes are upon him all the
time waiting but for him to act in order to
follow his example.
</p>

<p>
It is of the utmost importance that the
child's clothing should be very loose, particularly
the clothing of little boys, as chafing
garments often produce vices which follow a
man through life.
</p>

<p>
If anyone should attempt to forcibly extract
a babe from the protecting womb of its
mother, the outrage would result in death,
because the babe has not yet arrived at a maturity
sufficient to endure impacts of the
Physical World. In the three septenary periods
which follow birth, the invisible vehicles
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
are still in the womb of mother nature.
If we teach a child of tender years to memorize,
or to think, or if we arouse its feelings
and emotions, we are in fact opening the protecting
womb of nature and the results are
equally as disastrous in other respects as a
forced premature birth. Child prodigies usually
become men and women of less than ordinary
intelligence. We should not hinder the
child from learning or thinking of <emph>his own
volition</emph>, but we should not goad them on as
parents often do to nourish their own pride.
</p>

<p>
When the vital body is born at the age of
seven a period of growth begins and a new
motto, or relation rather, is established between
parent and child. This may be expressed
in the two words <hi rend='italic'>Authority</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Discipleship</hi>.
In this period the child is taught
certain lessons which it takes upon faith in
the authority of its teachers, whether at home
or at school, and as memory is a faculty of
the vital body it can now memorize what is
learned. It is therefore eminently teachable;
particularly because it is unbiased by pre-conceived
opinions which prevent most of us
from accepting new views. At the end of this
second period: from about twelve to fourteen,
the vital body has been so far developed
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
that puberty is reached. At the age of fourteen
we have the birth of the desire body,
which marks the commencement of self-assertion.
In earlier years the child regards itself
more as belonging to a family and subordinate
to the wishes of its parents than after
the fourteenth year. The reason is this: In
the throat of the fœtus and the young child
there is a gland called the thymus gland,
which is largest before birth, then gradually
diminishes through the years of childhood
and finally disappears at ages which vary according
to the characteristics of the child.
Anatomists have been puzzled as to the function
of this organ and have not yet come to
any settled conclusion, but it has been suggested
that before development of the red
marrow bones, the child is not able to manufacture
its own blood, and that therefore the
thymus gland contains an essence, supplied
by the parents, upon which the child may
draw during infancy and childhood, till able
to manufacture its own blood. That theory
is approximately true, and as the family
blood flows in the child, it looks upon itself as
part of the family and not as an Ego. But
the moment it commences to manufacture its
own blood, the Ego asserts itself, it is no
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
longer Papa's girl or Mamma's boy, it has an
<q>I</q>-dentity of its own. Then comes the critical
age when parents reap what they have
sown. The mind has not yet been born, nothing
holds the desire nature in check, and
much, very much, depends upon how the
child has been taught in earlier years and
what example the parents have set. At this
point in life self-assertion, the feeling <q><emph>I am
myself</emph></q>, is stronger than at any other time
and therefore authority should give place to
<hi rend='italic'>Advice</hi>; the parent should practice the utmost
tolerance, for at no time in life is a human being
as much in need of sympathy as during
the seven years from fourteen to twenty-one
when the desire nature is rampant and unchecked.
</p>

<p>
It is a crime to inflict corporal punishment
upon a child at any age. Might is never
right, and as the stronger, parents should always
have compassion for the weaker. But
there is one feature of corporal punishment
which makes it particularly dangerous to apply
it to the youth: namely, that it wakens the
passional nature which is already perhaps beyond
the control of a growing boy.
</p>

<p>
If we whip a dog, we shall soon break its
spirit and transform it into a cringing cur,
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
and it is deplorable that some parents seem
to regard it as their mission in life to break
the spirit of their children with the rule of
the rod. If there is one universal lack among
the human race which is more apparent than
any other, it is lack of will, and as parents we
may remedy the evil in a large measure by
guiding the wills of our children along such
lines as dictated by our own more mature
reason, so that we help them to grow a backbone
instead of a wishbone with which unfortunately
most of us are afflicted. Therefore,
never whip a child; when punishment is
necessary, correct by withholding favors or
withdrawing privileges.
</p>

<p>
At the twenty-first year the birth of the
mind transforms the youth into a man or a
woman fully equipped to commence his own
life in the school of experience.
</p>

<p>
Thus we have followed the human spirit
around a life cycle from death to birth and
maturity, we have seen how immutable law
governs his every step and how he is ever
encompassed by the loving care of the Great
and Glorious Beings who are the ministers of
God. The method of his future development
will be explained in a later work which will
deal with <q>The Christian Mystic Initiation.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mt. Ecclesia</head>

<p>
(Transcriber's Note: This chapter is the series of pages which, earlier, the
author said <q>had been transferred</q> to the back of the book.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>A Description of the Headquarters of the
Rosicrucian Fellowship</hi>
</p>

<p>
Work in the physical world requires physical
means of accomplishment; therefore
a tract of land was bought in 1911 in the
town of Oceanside, ninety miles south of Los Angeles,
California. <hi rend='italic'>Southern California was selected
because of the abundance of ether in the atmosphere
there, and this spot was found to be particularly
favored in that respect.</hi>
</p>

<p>
On this commanding site having a wide view of
the great Pacific Ocean, of snow capped mountains
and smiling valleys, we began to establish our
headquarters in the latter part of 1911. Soon after
this we erected a sanctuary, the Pro-Ecclesia,
where the Rosicrucian Temple Service is held at
appropriate times. The Rose Cross Healing Circle
holds its meetings there to help sufferers, and it
is the place appointed for the united morning and
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
evening devotions of the workers. In the latter
half of 1920 we built an Ecclesia, which is designed
to be a Temple of Healing. The building,
a beautiful domed structure, is of steel and reinforced
concrete. It is twelve sided in shape, corresponding
to the twelve signs of the zodiac. At
the present writing, January, 1921, the final work
upon it is just being completed. The esoteric work
of the Fellowship will be carried on here.
</p>

<p>
We have also built a two-story Administration
Building to house the general office, the book department,
the correspondence school in Christian
Mysticism which links Headquarters with students
all over the world, and the editorial offices of our
monthly publications, notably the <q><hi rend='italic'>Rosicrucian
Fellowship Magazine&mdash;Rays from the Rose Cross</hi>.</q>
We have also an astrological department which
conducts a correspondence school. Its offices are
located on the second floor.
</p>

<p>
The whole first floor is occupied by a modern
printing plant and book bindery required to furnish
the immense amount of literature needed in
this work. In the book department we publish all
the standard works and text books of the Rosicrucian
Philosophy written by Max Heindel. We are
now in process of publishing in book form his
former lessons to students.
</p>

<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>

<p>
In October, 1920, a Training School was established
for the preparation of candidates for the
lecture field. It is our intention to thereby maintain
a Lecture Bureau, from which we will send
our lecturers throughout the country to disseminate
the teachings and carry the message of our
philosophy to the people to a greater extent than
has before been possible.
</p>

<p>
A Dining Hall with seating capacity for over
one hundred people affords ample accommodation
for workers, students, and patients. The scientific
meatless diet served there preserves or restores
health, as required in each case. Furthermore, it
improves the vitality and mentality in an astonishing
degree. A large dormitory, and a number of
cottages and tents provide living quarters for all.
</p>

<p>
By the liberal use of water and the expenditure
of much labor, Mount Ecclesia is
gradually being transformed into a luxuriant
tropical park. There is a deep spiritual purpose in
this attempt to make the visible centre of the new
world movement beautiful, for it fosters in
the workers a poise and peace which are absolutely
essential to the proper performance of
their work. Without that they cannot escape
being disturbed by the flood of sorrow and
trouble which flows into Headquarters from
<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>
members all over the world; without that they
cannot continue to put heart into the letters
of help, hope and cheer which continually go
out to souls who are groaning under the burden
of sickness, but by bathing their souls in
the beauty of the surroundings, whether consciously
or not, they gain in strength and
grow in grace, they become better and better
fitted for the Great Work in the Master's
Vineyard.
</p>

<p>
In order to aid those who feel the upward
urge, to prepare intelligently and reverently
for the unfoldment of their inner latent spiritual
powers, the Rosicrucian Fellowship maintains
two correspondence courses which furnish
instruction to students all over the world.
One deals with <hi rend='italic'>Astrology</hi>, the other with
<hi rend='italic'>Christian Mysticism</hi>.
</p>

<p>
The Astrology to which we refer is not to
be confounded with fortune-telling; it is a
phase of the Mystic Religion, as sublime as
the stars with which it deals, and to the Mystic
they are not dead bodies moving in space
in obedience to so-called blind natural law,
but they are the embodiments of <q><hi rend='italic'>The Seven
Spirits before the Throne</hi>,</q> mighty Star-Angels
who use their benevolent influences to
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
guide other less exalted beings, humanity included,
upon the path of evolution.
</p>

<p>
There is a side of the moon which we never
see, but that hidden half is as potent a factor
in creating the ebb and flow, as the part of the
moon which is visible. Similarly, there is an
invisible part of man which exerts a powerful
influence in life, and as the tides are measured
by the motion of sun and moon, so also
the eventualities of existence are measured by
the circling stars, which may therefore be
called <q>the Clock of Destiny,</q> and knowledge
of their import is an immense power, for to
the competent Astrologer a horoscope reveals
every secret of life.
</p>

<p>
Thus, when you have given an astrologer
the data of your birth, you have given him the
key to your innermost soul, and there is no
secret that he may not ferret out. This knowledge
may be used for good or ill, to help or
hurt, according to the nature of the man.
Only a friend should be trusted with this key
to your soul, and it should never be given to
anyone base enough to prostitute a spiritual
science for material gain.
</p>

<p>
To the medical man Astrology is invaluable
in diagnosing diseases and prescribing a remedy,
for it reveals the hidden cause of all
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
ailments, in a manner that has often perplexed
the skeptic and dumbfounded the
scoffer.
</p>

<p>
The opinion of thousands is of great value,
but it does not prove anything, for thousands
may hold an opposite view; occasionally a
single man may be right and the rest of the
world wrong, as when Galileo maintained that
the earth moves. Today the whole world has
been converted to the opinion for which he
suffered torture, and we assert that, <emph>as man is
a composite being, cures are successful only in
proportion as they remedy defects on the
physical, moral and mental planes of Being</emph>.
We also maintain that results may be obtained
more easily at certain times when stellar
rays are propitious to healing of a particular
disease, or by treatment with remedies
previously prepared under auspicious conditions.
</p>

<p>
If you are a parent the horoscope will aid
you to detect the evil latent in your child and
teach you how to apply the ounce of prevention.
It will show you the good points also,
that you may make a better man or woman of
the soul entrusted to your care. It will reveal
systemic weakness and enable you to guard
the health of your child; it will show what
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
talents are there, and how the life may be
lived to a maximum of usefulness. Therefore,
the message of the marching orbs is so important
that you cannot afford to remain ignorant
thereof.
</p>

<p>
In order to aid those who are willing to
help themselves we maintain a Correspondence
Class in Astrology, but make no mistake,
we do not teach fortune-telling; if that is what
you are looking for, we have nothing for you.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Our Lessons Are Sermons</hi>
</p>

<p>
They embody the highest moral and spiritual
principles, together with the loftiest system
of ethics, for Astrology is, to us, a phase
of religion; we never look at a horoscope
without feeling that we are in a holy presence,
face to face with an immortal soul, and our
attitude is one of prayer for light to guide
that soul aright.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>We Do Not Cast Horoscopes</hi>
</p>

<p>
Despite all we can say, many people write
enclosing money for horoscopes, forcing us to
spend valuable time writing letters of refusal
and giving us the trouble of returning their
money. Please do not thus annoy us; it will
avail you nothing.
</p>

<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Course in Christian Mysticism</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Christ</hi> taught the multitude in <emph>parables</emph>, but
explained the <emph>mysteries</emph> to His disciples.
<emph>Paul gave milk</emph> to the babes, but <emph>meat</emph> to the
strong.
</p>

<p>
Max Heindel, the founder and leader of
the Rosicrucian Fellowship, endeavored to follow
in their steps and give to interested and
devoted students a <emph>deeper teaching</emph> than that
promulgated in public.
</p>

<p>
For that purpose we conduct a correspondence
course in <hi rend='italic'>Christian Mysticism</hi>. The General
Secretary may admit applicants to the
preliminary course, but <emph>advancement</emph> in the
deeper degrees depends upon merit. It is for
those alone who have been <emph>tried</emph>, and found
true.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>How To Apply for Admission</hi>
</p>

<p>
Anyone who is not engaged in fortune-telling
or similar methods of commercializing
spiritual knowledge will, upon request, receive
an application blank from the General
Secretary, Rosicrucian Fellowship. When
this blank is returned properly filled, he may
admit the applicant to instruction in either or
both correspondence courses.
</p>

<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Cost of the Course</hi>
</p>

<p>
There are no fixed fees; no esoteric instruction
is ever put in the balance against coin.
At the same time, it cannot be given <q><emph>free</emph>,</q>
<q><emph>for nothing</emph>,</q> for those who work to promulgate
it must have the necessities of life. Type,
paper, machinery and postage also cost
money, and <emph>unless you pay your part someone
else must pay for you</emph>.
</p>

<p>
There are a few who cannot contribute, and
who need these teachings as much or more
than those who may take comfort from financial
ease or affluence. If they make their condition
known, they will receive as much attention
as the largest contributors, but others
are expected to contribute for their own good
as well as for the good of the work. Remember,
<hi rend='italic'>a closed hand that does not give cannot
receive</hi>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Index</head>

<lg>
<l>Abstract Thought, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-thought-world-abstract'>Thought, World of,
Region of Abstract Thought</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Action, incentive to, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Adepts, pupils of schools of the Greater Mysteries, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Air, charged with pictures of surroundings, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Alchemy, proved by radio-activity, <ref target='Pg108'>108</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Alcohol, results of using, <ref target='Pg166'>166</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ambassador from sun, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ameshaspends, Seven Spirits before the Throne, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Angels, densest body of, composed of ether, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expert builders in ether, <ref target='Pg074'>74</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>family spirits, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>guardians of propagative force, <ref target='Pg074'>74</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>instruct ego in building archetype, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>one step beyond human stage, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Angels, Recording, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-recording-angels'>Recording angels</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Animals, dependent upon group spirit for infusion of stellar rays, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>keyed to lunar month, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>thought processes of, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Aquarian Age, intellect of, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-archangels'/>
<l>Archangels, densest vehicle of, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>;</l>
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>instruct ego in building archetype, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>less evolved become group spirits, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>native of Desire World, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>race and national spirits, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>various grades of, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>work with humanity politically and industrially, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Arche, primordial matter of, <ref target='Pg108'>108</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Archetypal forces direct archetypes, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Archetype, duration of, <ref target='Pg175'>175</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vibratory mold, <ref target='Pg175'>175</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Assimilation, through ether, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Astrology, estimation of time by, in Desire World, <ref target='Pg094'>94</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>value of, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Atom, physical, spherical shape of, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Atom, seed, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-seed-atom'>Seed
atom</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Atoms, chemical, expelled through skin, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Attitude, mental, results of, <ref target='Pg181'>181</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Benevolence, acquired in First Heaven, <ref target='Pg174'>174</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bennett, Florence, trance of, <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Black magic, punishment of, <ref target='Pg017'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Blood, charged with pictures of surroundings, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relation of, to vital body, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Blue, in stellar ray, life of the Father, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Bode's law and Neptune, <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Body, dense, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-dense-body'>Dense
body</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>desire, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-desire-body'>Desire body</ref>.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vital, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-vital-body'>Vital body</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Brain, absorption of stellar rays through, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Breath, record of, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Capital punishment, menace of, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Carelessness, power of, to shorten life, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-causation-law'/>
<l>Causation, law of, attraction of like to like, <ref target='Pg048'>48</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>determines environment, <ref target='Pg048'>48</ref>, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>;</l>
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>flexibility of law of, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-chaos'/>
<l>Chaos, (Cosmic night) seed ground of Cosmos, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>state of orderly segregation, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Chemical atoms, expelled through skin, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-chemical-ether'/>
<l>Chemical ether, assimilation and growth by, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>seen as blue haze, <ref target='Pg065'>65</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Child, post-mortem experiences of, easily investigated, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>prodigies, <ref target='Pg195'>195</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Children, clairvoyance of, <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>danger of mental forcing, <ref target='Pg195'>195</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>discipline of, <ref target='Pg195'>195</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>individual blood developed in, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>imitativeness of, <ref target='Pg194'>194</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>proper clothing of, <ref target='Pg194'>194</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>life of, in First Heaven, <ref target='Pg176'>176</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>understanding of, through astrology, <ref target='Pg192'>192</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Christ, higher laws taught by, <ref target='Pg169'>169</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>rebirth taught by, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Christianity, the flowering of previous religions, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clairvoyance of children, <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of the dying, <ref target='Pg148'>148</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>varieties of, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clairvoyants, separation of vital body of, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Clairvoyants, trained, positive powers of, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Colors, emotional effect produced by, <ref target='Pg178'>178</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Colors, primary, symbolize God, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Community affected by executions, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Concentration in Desire World, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Concrete Thought, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-thought-world-concrete'>Thought, World of, Region
of Concrete Thought</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conditions of life related to past action, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Conscience, assimilated pictures of past experience, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Consequence, law of, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-causation-law'>Causation, law of</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>

<lg>
<l>Conservation, law of, and survival of spirit, <ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cord, Silver, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-silver-cord'>Silver
Cord</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Corporal punishment, inadvisability of, <ref target='Pg197'>197</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cosmic night, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-chaos'>Chaos</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cosmos, aggregate of systematic order, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Countries, egos work upon, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Creation of Cosmos, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Creative force, develops spinal nerves, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-creative-hierarchies'/>
<l>Creative Hierarchies, aid humanity, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>guide man's evolution, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>safeguard man from materialism, <ref target='Pg008'>8</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Criminals, care of, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>execution of, a menace, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Crucifixion, the Mystic Death, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Crystallization in man's evolution, <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Dead, care of, <ref target='Pg152'>152</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inhabit Desire World, <ref target='Pg088'>88</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>intense activity of, <ref target='Pg089'>89</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Death, disrobing process of ego, <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>foreseen by higher powers, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>peaceful, helpfulness of, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>premature, ill effects of, <ref target='Pg145'>145</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>problem of, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>provides fresh start, <ref target='Pg143'>143</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Debts, binding nature of, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Demmler, Minna, materializations by, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-dense-body'/>
<l>Dense body, chemical constituents of, <ref target='Pg057'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>crystallized spirit substance, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disease of, due to imperfect archetype, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>energized by divine life, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>improves as spirit progresses, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>quality of, dependent upon ego, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>most evolved of man's vehicles, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>

<lg>
<l>Desire, created and guided by thought, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>forms impelled into action by, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-desire-body'/>
<l>Desire body, basic individual color of, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>born at fourteenth year, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>capable of sense perception, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cause dreams, <ref target='Pg139'>139</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>circulation in currents, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>colors of, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>destructive action of, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>extends beyond dense body, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>gives ability to experience desire and emotion <ref target='Pg121'>121</ref>, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>impels motion, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>, <ref target='Pg139'>139</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>impels to sense gratification, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>main vortex, in the liver, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>rapid locomotion of, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>recent acquisition of, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>shape of, ovoid, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>shell of, persists after death, <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vortices of, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>war of, with vital body, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>withdrawal of, in sleep, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Desire stuff, constant motion of, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>elasticity of, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>force combined with matter, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>modeled by thought, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>permeates atmosphere, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>persistence of, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>responsiveness to feeling, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-desire-world'/>
<l>Desire World, archangels native to, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>dead remain in, varying lengths of time, <ref target='Pg078'>78</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>difficulty of concentration in, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>diversity of tongues in, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>;</l>
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>effect of colors in, <ref target='Pg178'>178</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>ego's corrective work in, <ref target='Pg168'>168-170</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>estimation of time in, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>existence of, makes man's desires possible, <ref target='Pg057'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>force and matter closely related in, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>form blends into sound in, <ref target='Pg095'>95</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>head only perceptible in some regions of, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>large population of, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>seasons non-existent in, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>second vehicle of earth, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>time non-existent in, <ref target='Pg092'>92</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>universal mode of expression in, <ref target='Pg085'>85</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>vision pertaining to, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>world of color, <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Earth composed of three interpenetrating worlds, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>structure of dense body, obtained from, <ref target='Pg057'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>training school of, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>worked upon, by the disembodied, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Earth lives, intervals between, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Earth spirits, fairies and elves, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Eastern Wisdom, unsuited to Western peoples, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ego, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-spirit-threefold'>Spirit,
threefold</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Egyptians painted group spirits, <ref target='Pg082'>82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Electron, discovery of, <ref target='Pg107'>107</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Elves, spirits of mountains, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Emotions, relation of, to desire body, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Enmity overcome by its own discomforts, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Environment, suffering caused by, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ether, avenue for solar forces, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>, <ref target='Pg074'>74</ref>, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>nature of, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>permeates atomic structure of dense matter, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ether, chemical, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-chemical-ether'>Chemical ether</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ether, life, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='index-life-ether'>Life
ether</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>

<lg>
<l>Ether light, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-light-ether'>Light ether</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ether, reflecting <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-reflecting-ether'>Reflecting ether</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Etheric sight, distinguished from spiritual, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>extension of physical, <ref target='Pg065'>65</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>penetrates opaque substances, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>shows all objects same color, <ref target='Pg067'>67</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ethers, separation of, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ever-existing essence, <ref target='Pg107'>107</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Evil and good acts recorded by breath, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>destruction of, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>transmutation of, to good, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Evolution, from life to life, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>manifests in rest and activity, <ref target='Pg042'>42</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>of vehicles, manner of, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>persistent unfoldment in, <ref target='Pg042'>42</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fairies, spirits of the mountains, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fate, ripe, unavoidability of, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Faults, correction of, <ref target='Pg169'>169</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Feeling, right, increases conscience, <ref target='Pg172'>172</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>First cause, necessity for, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>First hand knowledge, possible to all, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-first-heaven'/>
<l>First Heaven, good of past life reaped in, <ref target='Pg173'>173</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>good strengthened in, <ref target='Pg174'>174</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>panorama of life in, <ref target='Pg173'>173</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>upper regions of Desire World, <ref target='Pg173'>173</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Fluid, vital, cessation of flow of, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forgiveness of sin, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>, <ref target='Pg169'>169</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Form, archetypes of, <ref target='Pg175'>175</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>incapable of feeling, <ref target='Pg060'>60</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forms, impelled into action by desire, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Forms, physical, built from chemical substance, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Free will, existence of, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>pertaining to future, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>

<lg>
<l>Generation caused by red ray of Holy Spirit, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Germination caused by blue ray of Father, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Gnomes, earth spirits, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>God, immanence of, <ref target='Pg187'>187</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Good amalgamates with spirit, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>and evil acts recorded by breath, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-great-silence'/>
<l>Great Silence between Desire World and World of Thought, <ref target='Pg095'>95</ref>, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>may be entered by acts of will, <ref target='Pg096'>96</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Group spirit, brings stellar influence to animals, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>less evolved archangels, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>painted by Egyptians, <ref target='Pg082'>82</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Growth, physical, carried on through ether, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>caused by yellow rays of Son, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relation of, to moon, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relation of, to vital body, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Growth, spiritual, must be slow, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heaven, among you, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heaven, First, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-first-heaven'>First Heaven</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heaven, Second, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-second-heaven'>Second Heaven</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heaven, Third, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-third-heaven'>Third Heaven</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hell, existence of, impossible, <ref target='Pg117'>117</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Helpers, Invisible, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-invisible-helpers'>Invisible Helpers</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Heredity, of the physical only, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hierarchies, Creative, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-creative-hierarchies'>Creative Hierarchies</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Higher Self dominates lower by keynote, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Higher senses of man, <ref target='Pg016'>16</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Higher vehicles, permeability of, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>withdrawal of, in sleep, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Holy of Holies, temple of our bodies, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Hotz, Dr., spirit photographs taken by, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Humanity, two classes of, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I, badge of self-consciousness, <ref target='Pg135'>135</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>

<lg>
<l>Ideas clothe themselves in mind stuff, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>embryonic thoughts, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>generated by ego in Region of Abstract Thought, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>originate in chaos, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ignorance, man's one sin, <ref target='Pg042'>42</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Illumination, induced by solar rays, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Immaculate conception, the Mystic Birth, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Immortality of spirit, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incense, evil effects of, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Incentive, induced by etchings of life panorama, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Individual auric color, dependent upon ruling planet, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Infant mortality, causes of, <ref target='Pg176'>176-179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Intelligence induced by planetary rays, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Interval between earth lives, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-invisible-helpers'/>
<l>Invisible Helpers, faculties of, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>linguistic abilities, valuable to, <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Izzards, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>James, Professor William, reputed communication from, <ref target='Pg149'>149-151</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jehovah, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi> Holy Spirit.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>John, Gospel of, spiritual significance of, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jupiter, auric color of, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Karma, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-causation-law'>Causation, law of</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Keynote, creates and maintains form, <ref target='Pg098'>98</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>manifestation of Higher Self, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>stopping of, terminates life, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Voice of Silence, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Knowledge, the only salvation, <ref target='Pg042'>42</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Laws of nature, living intelligences, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Life, dualistic theory of, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>lengthened by good deeds, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>long, value of, <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>, <ref target='Pg146'>146</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>monistic theory of, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>;</l>
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>object of, gaining of experience, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>shortened by neglected opportunities, <ref target='Pg146'>146</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-life-ether'/>
<l>Life ether, propagation accomplished through medium of, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-life-panorama'/>
<l>Life panorama, backward unfoldment of, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>duration of, <ref target='Pg153'>153</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>importance of, <ref target='Pg153'>153</ref>, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>insufficient, causes infant mortality, <ref target='Pg177'>177</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sub-conscious memory, basis of, <ref target='Pg154'>154</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>terminated by collapse of vital body, <ref target='Pg157'>157</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Light, relation of, to creation, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-light-ether'/>
<l>Light ether, motion due to, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>transmits solar force, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Likes and dislikes determine environment, <ref target='Pg048'>48</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Liver, main vortex of desire body, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Logos, Reasonable Thought, <ref target='Pg109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Love, higher than law, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>supreme commandment, <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-lunar-ray'/>
<l>Lunar ray enters body through spleen, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>induces physical growth, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>.;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>three-fold constitution of, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>..</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Magic, black, punishment of, <ref target='Pg017'>17</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Man, born innocent of sin, <ref target='Pg174'>174</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>composite being of body, soul, spirit, <ref target='Pg036'>36</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>desires of, impel to action, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>gathers spiritual substance, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Great Beings safeguard, <ref target='Pg198'>198</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>has evolved from lower forms, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>higher vehicles of, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>keyed to solar month, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>made a little lower than angels, <ref target='Pg073'>73</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spinal nerves of undeveloped, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spiritual faculties of, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>

<lg>
<l>Mars, auric color of, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Materialism and spirituality, necessity of, <ref target='Pg007'>7</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Materialistic theory of life, <ref target='Pg034'>34-36</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Materialization through incense, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>through mediums, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mathematics, benefit derived from study of, <ref target='Pg115'>115</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Matter, illusory nature of, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mediums and negative clairvoyance, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>read in reflecting ether, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Memory of Nature, events recorded in, <ref target='Pg094'>94</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Memory of past lives, <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Memory, sub-conscious, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-sub-conscious-memory'>Sub-conscious memory</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Metamorphosis in higher worlds, <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Michael, ambassador from sun to earth, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Michael, archangel, guardian of Jews, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mind, born at twenty-first year, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>, <ref target='Pg198'>198</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cloudy thought form , <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>material for, acquired in Region of Concrete Thought, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>recent acquisition of, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-mind-lords'/>
<l>Mind, Lords of, expert builders of mind stuff, <ref target='Pg102'>102</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>help man to acquire mind, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>human during dark stage of earth, <ref target='Pg101'>101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Powers of Darkness, <ref target='Pg101'>101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>worked with man in mineral stage, <ref target='Pg102'>102</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Mind stuff, permeability of, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>veils inner spirit, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Monistic, theory of life, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Moon rays, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-lunar-ray'>Lunar rays</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Morality induced by planetary rays, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Music in Desire World, <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>soul-speech of World of Thought, <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-mystery-orders'/>
<l>Mystery Orders formed on cosmic lines, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>;</l>
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>seven world workers in, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>N-rays, etheric radiation of, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nature, laws of, control nature spirits, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Great Intelligences, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nebulae, fiery formation of, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nebular theory postulates First Cause, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Negative development, mediumship allied to, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Nephesh, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Neptune outside of our solar system, <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Occult orders, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-mystery-orders'>Mystery orders</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Odic fluid, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-solar-fluid'>Solar fluid</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Opportunities, each life contains, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Over-eating, ill-effects of, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Painting, related to Desire World, <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Palladino, Eusapio, materializations through, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Panorama of Life, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-life-panorama'>Life Panorama</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Patriotism, inspired by archangels, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Periodicity, law of, determines time of actions, <ref target='Pg013'>13</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Personality governed by keynote, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>Peter Ibbettson,</q> occult information in, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Physical body, anchor of mind, <ref target='Pg092'>92</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Physical embodiment, value of, <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>, <ref target='Pg143'>143</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pineal gland, localized organ of feeling, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spiritual sight through development of, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>third eye, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Planetary ray, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-stellar-ray'>Stellar ray</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-planetary-spirits'/>
<l>Planetary spirits, color belonging to, <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>names of, <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Planets, absorption of solar rays by, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Post-mortem experiences, usefulness of, <ref target='Pg143'>143</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Powers of Darkness, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-mind-lords'>Mind, Lords of</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-powers-spiritual'/>
<l>Powers, spiritual, difficulty of obtaining, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>microscopic and telescopic, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>;</l>
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>possible to all, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Prayer, forgiveness of sin through, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Precession of equinoxes, measure of time, <ref target='Pg094'>94</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Predestination of great leaders, <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Primary colors symbolize God, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Probation, long, necessity for, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Propagation carried on through life ether, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Psychometrists read in reflecting ether, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Puberty, cause of, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Pituitary body and clairvoyance, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Punishment, corporal, evils of, <ref target='Pg198'>198</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Purgatory, evil habits corrected in, <ref target='Pg167'>167</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>evil of past lives transmuted in, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>experiences in, based on moral attitude of preceding life, <ref target='Pg181'>181</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>review of life experiences in, <ref target='Pg170'>170</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Race likeness caused by race spirits, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Race Spirits, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-archangels'>Archangels</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-rebirth'/>
<l>Rebirth, law of, alternation of sex in, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>believed in, by Jews, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Biblical foundation for doctrine of, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>explanation of inequalities, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>harmonious with nature's methods, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>intervals between, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>preparations for, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>special talents of individual, evidence of, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>specially adapted to ego's need, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>taught by Christ, <ref target='Pg046'>46</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-recording-angels'/>
<l>Recording angels aid ego in choice of environment, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>give race religions, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>show ego life panorama, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Red in stellar ray, life of Holy Spirit, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>produces form, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-reflecting-ether'/>
<l>Reflecting ether, impressions of universe recorded in, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mediums and psychometrists read in, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Regret, time wasted in, <ref target='Pg092'>92</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Reincarnation, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-rebirth'>Rebirth</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Religions, all have origin in God, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Repentance, benefits received through, <ref target='Pg169'>169</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Restrospection, exercise of, <ref target='Pg170'>170-173</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ripe fate, unavoidability of, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rose Cross, initiates into science of life and being, <ref target='Pg008'>8</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Mystery school of the West, <ref target='Pg008'>8</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>thirteen Brothers of, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>thirteenth member, the invisible head, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>works to mould public opinion, <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rosicrucian Fellowship, herald of the Aquarian Age, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>purpose and work of, <ref target='Pg014'>14-18</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Rosicrucians, hold doctrine of man's potential divinity, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>hierophants of Lesser Mysteries, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>influence of, upon writers of modern times, <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>midnight service of, <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>object of, to unite religion and science, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>work with evolved humanity, <ref target='Pg009'>9</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Ruling planet, relation of color of, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Salamanders, fire spirits, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>produce volcanic eruptions, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q>School of Athens,</q> painting of, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Science discovers spiritual side of universe, <ref target='Pg034'>34</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>established proofs of spirit survival, <ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spiritualized by Rosicrucians, <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sculpture belongs to physical world., <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-second-heaven'/>
<l>Second Heaven, ego prepares future environment in, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>located in Region of Concrete Thought, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-seed-atom'/>
<l>Seed atom, basis of sub-conscious memory, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>etchings of, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>;</l>
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sample and center of other dense atoms, <ref target='Pg175'>175</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>transmits pictures to desire body, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sensitives, separation of ethers in vital body of, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Servia, regicides in, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Seven Spirits before the Throne, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-planetary-spirits'>Planetary Spirits</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sex, alternation of, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Shells, discarded desire bodies, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>retain life panorama, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spiritualistic impersonations by, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-sight-spiritual'/>
<l>Sight, spiritual, accompanies development of pineal gland and pituitary body, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>varieties of, <ref target='Pg067'>67</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Silence, Great, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-great-silence'>Great Silence</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Silence, Voice of, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-voice-of-silence'>Voice of the Silence</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-silver-cord'/>
<l>Silver cord holds higher and lower vehicles together, <ref target='Pg153'>153</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>snapping of, <ref target='Pg153'>153</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-solar-fluid'/>
<l>Solar fluid, absorption of, by different kingdoms, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>aids in digestion, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>cleansing power of, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>expels disease germs, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>muscular movement by means of, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>permeates nervous system, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>radiates from body, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>transformed to rose color, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Solar rays, direct and indirect, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spiritual illumination from, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>three-fold constitution of, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Soul, differentiated from spirit, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>product of breath, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Soul flights, time non-existent in, <ref target='Pg089'>89</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Soul growth induced by planetary rays, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Soul power, assimilated from past action, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>developed by good action, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<lg>
<l>Sound, power of, over matter, <ref target='Pg175'>175</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spinal cord, absorbs stellar ray, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spencer, Herbert, and nebular hypothesis, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sphinx, faces east, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>riddle of, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-spirit-threefold'/>
<l>Spirit, threefold (ego) abandons vital body in sleep, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>absorbs solar ray, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>destined to become creative intelligence, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disembodied, relief of, at leaving body, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>distinguished from soul, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>drawn to rebirth by desire for experience, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>earth-bound, condition of, <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>encrusted in mind stuff, <ref target='Pg101'>101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>free will of, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>freedom of, in choosing environment, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>has seat in forehead, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>immortality of, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>improvement in vehicles of, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>individualization of, in childhood, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>instructed in building archetype, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>many earth lives of, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>no limitations possible for, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sowing and reaping of, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>sufferings of, in purgatory, <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>uncreate and eternal, <ref target='Pg039'>39</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>various human relations of, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>works with archetypes, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spirits, planetary, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-planetary-spirits'>Planetary Spirits</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spiritual investigations, <ref target='Pg063'>63</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spiritual powers, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-powers-spiritual'>Powers, spiritual</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spiritual sight, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-sight-spiritual'>Sight, spiritual</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spiritual thought, spinal nerves developed by, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Spirituality followed by materialism, <ref target='Pg007'>7</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>

<lg>
<l>Spleen, entrance for solar forces, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>transmutation for solar energy in, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-stellar-ray'/>
<l>Stellar ray, absorption of, by brain and spinal cord, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>animals incapable of absorbing, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>induces morality, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>threefold nature of, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Stimulants, effects of, upon dying, <ref target='Pg152'>152</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Storms caused by nature spirits, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-sub-conscious-memory'/>
<l>Sub-conscious memory, basis of future life, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>consciously utilized, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in seed atom, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>retentiveness of, <ref target='Pg154'>154</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Suicide, sufferings of, <ref target='Pg174'>174</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sun, movements of, <ref target='Pg094'>94</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Superman, evolution of man into, <ref target='Pg053'>53</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Survival after death, established by scientists, <ref target='Pg035'>35</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Sylphs, spirits of mists, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tears, white bleeding, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Temptation, repetition of, <ref target='Pg174'>174</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Theological theory of life, <ref target='Pg036'>36-39</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-third-heaven'/>
<l>Third Heaven, few have consciousness in, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in Region of Abstract Thought, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>inspiration of philanthropist, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>place of awaiting rebirth, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>source of inventor's inspiration, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thompson, J. J., discovery of electron by, <ref target='Pg107'>107</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thought, objects of physical world, crystallized, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>result of union, idea and mind stuff, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-thought-world'/>
<l>Thought, world of, earth's finest vehicle, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>home of spirit, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>knowledge gained in, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>makes man's thought possible, <ref target='Pg057'>57</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>realm of tone, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>;</l>
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>spirit's work in, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>time non-existent in, <ref target='Pg101'>101</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>tonal vision pertaining to, <ref target='Pg067'>67</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-thought-world-abstract'/>
<l>Thought, World of, Region of Abstract Thought, abstract verities of, <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Third Heaven in, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-thought-world-concrete'/>
<l>Thought, World of, Region of Concrete Thought, acme of reality, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>mind built in, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>physical world replica of, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Second Heaven, <ref target='Pg116'>116</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Thymus Gland, function of, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Time, end of, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>relatively non-existent in higher worlds, <ref target='Pg092'>92</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Tobacco, fumes of, disembodied work through, <ref target='Pg166'>166</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Trance, caused by flight of spirit, <ref target='Pg140'>140</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>kinds of, <ref target='Pg140'>140</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Truth, freedom by, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>self-evident in higher worlds, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Undines, spirits of water, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vehicles, improvements in, <ref target='Pg185'>185</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Veil of Isis, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vibration, external, transferred to blood, <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>universality of, <ref target='Pg036'>36</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-vital-body'/>
<l>Vital body, born at seventh year, <ref target='Pg195'>195</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>collapse of, in sleep, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>composed of ether, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>connected with spleen, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>disintegration of, stops life panorama, <ref target='Pg157'>157</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>extends beyond dense vehicle, <ref target='Pg123'>123</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in sickness lacks solar rays, <ref target='Pg128'>128</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>in third stage of evolution, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>nourishes dense body, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>;</l>
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>photographed by scientists, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>polarity of, <ref target='Pg129'>129</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>propagation by, <ref target='Pg121'>121</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>recuperative work of, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>second vehicle acquired by man, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>separation of ethers of, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>war with desire body, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>well organized state of, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vital Fluid, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-solar-fluid'>Solar fluid</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<anchor id='index-voice-of-silence'/>
<l>Voice of the Silence, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Volcanic eruptions produced by salamanders, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Vortices, whirling, of desire body, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>War causes infant mortality, <ref target='Pg177'>177</ref>, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wave of spirituality inspired great religions, <ref target='Pg007'>7</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Whipping children, evil of, <ref target='Pg198'>198</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Will, lack of, racial defect, <ref target='Pg198'>198</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wind, changes of, caused by sylphs, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Word, Creative Fiat, <ref target='Pg109'>109</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Word, creative, and key-note, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>God was, <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>power of, <ref target='Pg110'>110</ref>, <ref target='Pg193'>193</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>still sounds in cosmos, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>World, Desire, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-desire-world'>Desire World</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>World of Thought, <hi rend='italic'>see</hi>
<ref target='index-thought-world'>Thought, World of</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>World, physical, world of form, <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Worlds, higher, difficulty of investigating, <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Yellow in stellar ray, life of Son, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>produces consciousness, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Zoroastrian religion, deities of, <ref target='Pg086'>86</ref>.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<head>Advertisements</head>

<p>
Rays From the Rose Cross
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The American Mystic Monthly</hi>
</p>

<p>
A Monthly Magazine of Mystic Light devoted to
philosophy, occultism, mystic masonry, astrology, and
healing.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Those who desire knowledge and guidance
along the Path of the Western Wisdom
Teachings will find this magazine a constant
aid.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It expounds and supports occult and mystical
philosophy in a most instructive and interesting manner.
It carries such special departments as:
</p>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Questions and Answers on Mystical Subjects</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Editorial Discussion of Current Events</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Astrological Readings</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Occult Stories</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>One of the foremost magazines of its kind in America.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Price $2.00 per year in U. S. and Canada.</l>
<l>Other Countries, $2.25.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,<lb/>
Mt. Ecclesia<lb/>
Oceanside, California.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Rosicrucian Interpretation of
Christianity</hi>
</p>

<p>
ANCIENT TRUTHS IN MODERN DRESS
</p>

<p>
Price 10c Each, Postfree
</p>

<p>
No. 1. The Riddle of Life and Death.
</p>

<p>
No. 2. Where Are the Dead?
</p>

<p>
No. 3. Spiritual Sight and the Spiritual Worlds.
</p>

<p>
No. 4. Sleep, Dreams, Trance, Hypnotism, Mediumship and Insanity.
</p>

<p>
No. 5. Death and Life in Purgatory.
</p>

<p>
No. 6. Life and Activity in Heaven.
</p>

<p>
No. 7. Birth a Fourfold Event.
</p>

<p>
No. 8. The Science of Nutrition, Health and Protracted Youth.
</p>

<p>
No. 9. The Astronomical Allegories of the Bible.
</p>

<p>
No. 10. Astrology; Its Scope and Limitations.
</p>

<p>
No. 11. Spiritual Sight and Insight.
</p>

<p>
No. 12. Parsifal.
</p>

<p>
No. 13. The Angels as Factors in Evolution.
</p>

<p>
No. 14. Lucifer, Tempter or Benefactor?
</p>

<p>
No. 15. The Mystery of Golgotha and the Cleansing Blood.
</p>

<p>
No. 16. The Star of Bethlehem; A Mystic Fact.
</p>

<p>
No. 17. The Mystery of the Holy Grail.
</p>

<p>
No. 18. The Lord's Prayer.
</p>

<p>
No. 19. The Coming Force; Vril or What?
</p>

<p>
No. 20. Fellowship and the Coming Race.
</p>

<p>
These lectures are particularly suitable for beginners.
Read consecutively, they give a comprehensive outline of our
philosophy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>THEY FIT THE POCKET</hi>
</p>

<p>
and allow a busy man to utilize time on cars en route to or
from business.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>GIVE ONE TO A FRIEND</hi>
</p>

<p>
It is an inexpensive and a helpful gift.
</p>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Mt. Ecclesia</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Oceanside, California.</hi></l>
</lg>

<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Correspondence Courses</hi>
</p>

<p>
IN
</p>

<p>
The Rosicrucian Philosophy and
Astrology
</p>

<p>
(1) <hi rend='italic'>Rosicrucian Philosophy</hi>:
</p>

<p>
Using the <hi rend='italic'>Cosmo-Conception</hi> by Max Heindel as a
textbook, this course of twelve lessons points to a
logical explanation of the origin, evolution, and future
development of mankind, and opens the way to a
deeper knowledge of this great subject. This philosophy
seeks to make Christianity a <hi rend='italic'>living factor in the
world</hi>, and to combine the eternal facts of Science, Art,
and Religion. This course is open to all those interested.
</p>

<p>
(2) <hi rend='italic'>Astrology</hi>:
</p>

<p>
We want to assist you in <hi rend='italic'>helping yourself and
others.</hi> This correspondence course will teach you the
importance of astrology as a phase of religion and a
Divine Science. The one restriction is that our pupils
may not prostitute the knowledge thus obtained for
gain in any way. Anyone not engaged in fortune
telling or similar methods of commercializing spiritual
knowledge may be admitted to this course.
</p>

<p>
For admission to these courses address,
</p>

<p>
(I) Philosophy Secretary.
</p>

<p>
(II) Astrology Secretary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,<lb/>
Mt. Ecclesia<lb/>
Oceanside, California.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>

<p>
THE
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Eighth Edition With New 70 Page Index</hi>
</p>

<p>
This book gives a complete outline of the <hi rend='italic'>Western
Wisdom Teaching</hi> as far as it may be made public at
the present time. The Rosicrucian Brotherhood from
time to time gives out occult teachings to the public
in such a manner that their expression conforms to
the intellectual development of the times. This is the
latest of their communications.
</p>

<p>
Max Heindel was the accredited agent of the Rosicrucian
Brotherhood, commissioned to give the contents
of this book to the world. There is no other book
that contains so complete an exposition of the factors
that enter into the creation of the universe and of
man and all its statements are in keeping with the results
of scientific research.
</p>

<p>
Part I is a treatise on the Visible and the Invisible
Worlds, Man and the Method of Evolution, Rebirth
and the Law of Cause and Effect.
</p>

<p>
Part II takes up the scheme of Evolution in general
and the Evolution of the Solar System and the Earth
in particular.
</p>

<p>
Part III treats of Christ and His Mission, Future
Development of Man and Initiation, Esoteric Training
and a Safe Method of Acquiring First-hand
Knowledge.
</p>

<lg>
<l>616 Pages.   Cloth Bound.   $2.00 Postfree.</l>
<l></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Mt. Ecclesia</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Oceanside, California.</hi></l>
</lg>

<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Message of the Stars</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel and Augusta Foss Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
One of the most complete systems of character delineation
and reading the horoscope for medical
diagnosis yet given to modern astrology.
</p>

<p>
With many nontechnical articles to interest the
general student of the occult, a simple method of
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>PROGRESSION AND PREDICTION</hi>,
</p>

<p>
and a <hi rend='italic'>new index</hi> for quickly locating desired information,
it is indeed a classic in its realm.
</p>

<p>
In the section on Medical Astrology the authors
have given a system that is based on years of practical
experience. Thirty-six example horoscopes are
included, and the subject is dealt with most thoroughly.
</p>

<p>
YOU NEED THIS BOOK!
</p>

<p>
708 Pages.   Cloth Bound.   $3.50 Postpaid.
</p>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Mt. Ecclesia</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Oceanside, California.</hi></l>
</lg>

<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Web of Destiny</hi>
</p>

<p>
HOW MADE AND UNMADE
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
Including
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Occult Effect of Our Emotions</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prayer&mdash;A Magic Invocation</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Practical Methods of Achieving Success</hi>
</p>

<p>
This book is based on personal occult investigations
by the author, in which he uncovered many of the
inner laws governing man's hidden springs of action.
</p>

<p>
It gives information regarding the Dweller on the
Threshold, which every aspirant has to meet, usually
at an early stage of his progress into the unseen
worlds. It treats of the causes of obsession of men
and animals. It describes how we create our environment
and some of the causes of disease, pointing the
way to final emancipation.
</p>

<p>
The part devoted to the emotions shows the function
of desire, the color effects of emotion, and the results
of worry and remorse.
</p>

<p>
Prayer is shown here as a magic invocation by which
powerful forces may be marshalled. It throws much
light on the nature of prayer, pointing out that true
prayer is based on scientific principles which will
bring results when rightly applied.
</p>

<p>
Written in a simple and narrative style, it offers at
the same time serious instruction and pleasant relaxation.
</p>

<lg>
<l>175 Pages.    Cloth Bound.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Freemasonry and Catholicism</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
An Esoteric Treatise on the Underlying Facts regarding
these two great Institutions as determined by
occult investigation.
</p>

<p>
It explains in terms of Mystic Masonry the conflict
between the Sons of Cain and the Sons of
Seth, and unravels the allegory dealing with the building
of Solomon's Temple, the Queen of Sheba, and
the Grand Master, Hiram Abiff.
</p>

<p>
If you are interested in the symbols of Masonry, in
knowing the source of these mysteries which have
come down to us from past ages, this is the book you
want.
</p>

<p>
Only a trained Seer could have read the Akashic
Records of the past and given such a clear explanation
of their meaning.
</p>

<p>
In addition, read what the author says about the
famous Philosopher's Stone of the Alchemists, the
Path of Initiation, and the Coming Age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>This Book Should Be in Every Mason's Library.</hi>
</p>

<p>
98 Pages.   Cloth Bound.   $1.00 Postfree.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,<lb/>
Mt. Ecclesia<lb/>
Oceanside, California.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Gleanings of a Mystic</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
This book is devoted to practical mysticism, bringing
out a vast array of new information and fine points never
before presented in this form. The information contained
in this book will be of immense value to the student and
aspirant, enabling them to make swifter progress in both
their spiritual and material development.
</p>

<p>
A few chapter headings are appended to give a better
idea of the contents:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Initiation&mdash;What It Is and Is Not.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Sacraments of Communion, Baptism, and Marriage.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Coming Christ.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Coming Age.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Magic, White and Black.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Our Invisible Government.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Practical Precepts for Practical People.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Sound, Silence, and Soul Growth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Mysterium Magnum of the Rose Cross.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Stumbling Blocks.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Why I Am a Rosicrucian.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>196 Pages.    Cloth Bound.    $2.00 Postpaid.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Rosicrucian Philosophy</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>IN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
A book of ready reference upon all mystic matters,
which ought to be in the library of every occult student.
It comprises the answers to hundreds of questions
asked of Max Heindel on the lecture platform.
</p>

<p>
PARTIAL LIST OF SUBJECTS:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Life after Death.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Life on Earth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Bible Teachings.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Spiritualistic Phenomena.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Clairvoyance.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Astrology.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Animals.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>176 Pages.    Cloth Bound.    $2.00 Postpaid.</l>
</lg>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>How Shall We Know Christ
at His Coming?</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
This book tells us that Christ will return in an
etheric, not a physical body. Hence mankind must
develop the etheric body to the point where they can
function in it consciously before Christ will return.
Then they will possess the inner spiritual perception
by which they will be able to recognize Him.
</p>

<p>
These matters are fully elucidated in this book.
</p>

<lg>
<l>29 Pages.    Paper Bound.    15c Postfree.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Rosicrucian Fellowship,<lb/>
Mt. Ecclesia<lb/>
Oceanside, California.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>In the Land of
The Living Dead</hi>
</p>

<p>
AN OCCULT STORY
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Prentiss Tucker</hi>
</p>

<p>
Among the many post-war books, here is one to
interest the soldier, student, and layman alike. Its
appeal is general and lasting in that it portrays in
story form the ever existing conditions on the superphysical
planes. It inclines toward that thing called
<q>The religion of the trenches,</q> and will help to open
the eyes of many a puzzled participant as well as of
those who lost friends and relatives in the Great War.
</p>

<p>
Look at some of the chapter headings:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Visit to the Invisible Planes.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Sergeant's Experiences after <q>Passing out.</q></hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Doughboy's Ideas on Religion.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Helping a Slain Soldier to Comfort His Mother.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A Crisis in Love.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>168 Pages.    Cloth Bound.    $1.50 Postpaid.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>The Mystical Interpretation
of Christmas</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
This treatise covers the Cosmic Significance of
Christmas and the annual Sacrifice of Christ, traces
the astrological interpretation up through the simplicity
of nature worship, and sketches a glorious
outlook for the coming age, which inspires the casual
reader to seek more Light.
</p>

<p>
Here is a book most attractively bound in heavy
mottled paper which, aside from its merit as a simple
gift, is most useful in answering inquiries on the occult
significance of its subject. The world is beginning
to ask the greater meaning of this holy festival; it is
well to be informed.
</p>

<p>
Heavy Paper Binding.<lb/>
75 Cents Postpaid.
</p>

<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Earthbound</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Augusta Foss Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
An addition to our Rosicrucian Christianity Series
of twenty lectures. This pamphlet warns against the
craze for phenomena, mediumship, and the ouija
board. It cites concrete cases where those who held
too closely to things of this earth were thereby held
back in their progress after leaving the earthy body
and passing onward to the unseen realms of being. It
points out how this condition may be avoided; also
how some prolong their stay in the Borderland close
to the earth.
</p>

<p>
It describes the condition of those who are bound
to the lower Desire World after death by sense affiliation,
sorrow, or other causes, showing clearly their delusions
and their activities.
</p>

<lg>
<l>13 pages.    Paper Bound.    Price 10c.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Simplified Scientific Astrology</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fifth Edition.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>With Max Heindel's Portrait</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>198 Pages.    Cloth Bound.   $1.50 Postpaid.</l>
</lg>

<p>
A complete textbook on the art of erecting a horoscope,
making the process simple and easy for beginners. It also
includes a
</p>

<p>
Philosophic Encyclopedia
</p>

<p>
&mdash;and&mdash;
</p>

<p>
Tables of Planetary Hours
</p>

<p>
The Philosophic Encyclopedia fills a long felt want both
of beginners and advanced students for information concerning
the underlying reasons for astrological dicta. It is
a mine of knowledge arranged in such a manner as to be
instantly accessible.
</p>

<p>
The Tables of Planetary Hours enable one to select the
most favorable time for beginning new enterprises.
</p>

<p>
The unparalleled merits of this book have been amply attested
by many thousands of enthusiastic students who have
bought the first four editions.
</p>

<p>
No astrological student can afford to be without it.
</p>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Mysteries of the Great Operas</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>By Max Heindel</hi>
</p>

<p>
Faust, Parsifal, The Ring of the Niebelung,
Tannhauser, Lohengrin
</p>

<p>
Folk Lore and its interpretation through music has
much to offer to the general reader as well as to the
musician and occultist. These Myths conceal many
of the hidden truths which are now being translated
from symbol and allegory, and this attractive book
is the key to these poetic tales of evolution, sacrifice,
and unfoldment.
</p>

<lg>
<l>176 Pages.    Cloth Bound.    $2.00 Postpaid.</l>
</lg>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
